No expert in the world agrees with you.
I know you're eager for Arrow to debunk
this. There's zero evidence of what
you're proposing. None. This isn't an
what we're seeing here is a curve that's
basically a mathematical projection.
It's not like propose one plane that
would fly like this.
Well, why don't you propose one type of
UFO? The broader problem with ufology is
that it's always been the battle between
hard evidence and cool stories. There
[music] just happen to be a distant jet
exactly where the close thing is. Is
that what you're saying?
Behind it somewhere. really you're very
familiar with this theory of mine
America [music]
the stigma that you promote is a big
part of why they don't want to come out
these guys [music] are fighting a stigma
I encourage them to come forward like
come forward and I won't laugh at you
I am here with Mick West and Merrick von
Renenamp and this couldn't be better
timing for this debate we planned this
maybe a couple weeks ago So, uh, both of
you are very wellknown, Merrick. Uh,
kind of on the pro side in certain cases
where I wouldn't call you dogmatically,
you know, pro- UFO, but there are a few
videos that you've looked at where you
think there's something substantial or
worthy of investigation there. And Mick
has done an amazing job. I think you're
doing a service of uh, debunking a lot
of UFO videos that just are clearly
fake. And so I I'm honored to have you
both here because I think you're both
the most serious on the sort of, you
know, this is a poor way of saying it,
but pro and anti-side. And uh this
couldn't be better timing, right? It's
just insane how many quote unquote
drones we're seeing over air force bases
all over the world right now. Um and so
yeah, I'm very excited. uh you kind of
came on my radar because you uh publish
in The Hill and you're a former DoD
employee and so you kind of know that
world and you were publishing really
substantive pieces around uh some of
these videos and and you Mick have been
doing this for how long? Like five plus
years or
since 2016?
Since 2016. And I I I think you've
always done a pretty good job and I've
heard things from, you know, UFO junkie
friends of mine like, "Oh, Mick's like a
a bad faith actor." But all of our
conversations we've had, I find you to
be pretty earnest and and cool. So, um
why don't you guys kind of introduce
yourselves and tell the audience how you
got into uh this sort of vigilante job
of debunking or or uh you know uh
confirming UFO videos to begin with.
I'll start with you, Mary. Well, Jesse,
thanks for having us. And Mick, thanks
for being here. Um, so I will I'll be
very honest. I didn't think about this
topic. Uh, I thought it was squarely in
tinfoil hat territory. This is not
anything on my radar. Um, I missed the
the big 2017 story with Leslie Kaine and
Ralph Blumenthal. It's just as a
testament to how little I was tracking
this. Um, but I did stumble upon I think
it was late 2019
um the uh uh interview that Commander
Fraver did on Joe Rogan. And I
previously worked at the Pentagon. I
worked with um some Navy aviators, naval
aviators, more rotary wing guys, but um
I knew the the type, the bravado, the
way they carried themselves. And as soon
as you know I watched Five Minutes of
Fraver, and this guy's the real deal,
right? He's a skipper of a a storied
squadron out on the West Coast. the
VFA41 um black aces and uh he tells a
pretty an incredible story. Uh and oh by
the way, it wasn't just him, it was
three other aviators that were out there
and that that was my ticket kind of into
the uh down the rabbit hole. Um and then
believe it or not, Mick West uh has has
a lot to do with with um my kind of uh
my interest in this topic. We exchanged
a whole lot of emails. I think we did a
few Zoom calls. Yeah. Um, this is years
ago and and I'll just be transparent. I
this the the deeper I dug into Mick's
theories and first of all I'll just say
like who's this MC West guy who thinks
he knows more than the government like
okay um and and you know went there's
some pretty deep nuance and from my
perspective I I found again from my opin
in my opinion he was wrong about a lot
of his theories and the deeper we dug
I'm like my goodness uh there's
something to this um and that was that
was really kind of the the the kind of
the twin uh tickets down the rabbit
hole, dug into the history and and
started writing articles about it.
Awesome. And before we get to you, Mick,
for context for the audience, we're
going to be going over kind of the
classic historic landmark cases. So,
Nimtt's fleer videos uh or video rather
uh uh the gimbal and goast videos which
were taken at the USS Ros Roosevelt 300
miles off the coast of Jacksonville. Um
Mick, what about you? How did you get
into this? Well, I am a retired video
game programmer, which very different
background to Merrick. And uh I um after
I retired, I took up writing and I was
just doing stuff like writing for Game
Development magazine. And I eventually
kind of moved into
the skeptical arena like uh
investigating conspiracy theories,
things like that. One of the first
things I did was uh I was on Wikipedia
um just messing around with I used to
edit Wikipedia about I guess about 18
years ago. Uh and I saw this article on
the chemtrail conspiracy theory
uh which is this fun theory where the
government spraying things behind planes
and we did some well I did some work on
that on my blog and that blog kind of
evolved into uh my current site
metabunk.org
Metabunk is just a forum where you have
lots of people just chatting about
various different conspiracy theories.
It's kind of grown now to be more UFO
focused, but we we have a lot of older
stuff like 911 conspiracy theories, uh
false flags and uh even the flat earth
stuff. But with the with the chemtrail
stuff, I got really into doing things
like tracking planes and trying to
figure out what people were seeing in
their videos. And so after that it
became kind of a natural thing for me to
start looking at UFO videos and occasion
did a few over the years but it really
kind of took off in I think it was 2016
or perhaps the start of 2017 with this
this case from from Chile Chilean Navy
uh video and this is uh a video looks
really spectacular. It was released by
Alyssa Keane, who you mentioned, uh, in
the Huffington Post in 2016 or 2017, and
she was very affusive about how amazing
it was. And me and a few other people
looked into it, and we very quickly
determined that she was wrong about
that. It wasn't that amazing. And uh, it
was actually just a distant plane. And
we were able to prove that pretty
conclusively. Not everybody agreed
straight away, but I think like Americ
would agree that case is pretty much
solved. U and that really kind of got me
hooked on on UFOs. And that kind of
almost coincided with the uh 2017
December 2017 release of a New York
Times article which came with these
other videos, gimbal uh and the Fleer 1
video and Go Fast was released a little
later. And yeah, when I when I first
looked at them, when I looked at the FL
one video, it seemed very similar to
this Chilean video. And so I thought
perhaps it's the same type of thing. So
I started delving into it. Turned out it
wasn't exactly the same type of thing,
but there were related aspects. And I
really enjoyed the process of
investigating UFO videos because it was
so similar to the work I used to do with
video games except kind of in reverse
but use all the same mathematical
techniques, all the analysis techniques,
debugging and debunking are very similar
things because they're both about
finding the root cause of something. Uh,
and so I got hooked and I've been doing
it ever since. And I've done a whole
bunch of different videos. Merrick and I
have uh agreements on several of these
and we have disagreements on a few of
them and I think a lot of the time those
disagreements kind of fall in the videos
that are somewhat more ambiguous and
this is a problem in general with with
UFO videos but I'm keeping going
real quick before we get into the actual
substance about kind of your priors.
Do you believe in the possibility of
UFOs
notwithstanding the fact that you don't,
you know, sort of agree that any of
these videos are legit?
No. Yeah, definitely. I mean, I would
certainly agree. People ask me, do you
believe aliens might exist? And yeah, I
think obviously in the universe, almost
certainly there's some type of alien
life, probably some type of alien
civilization. Uh, I just don't see that
there's good evidence of them visiting
us here. I wouldn't rule it out, but I
just don't think there is good evidence
of that happening.
Okay. What about you, Mayor?
Um, I previously before I went down the
rabbit hole, I was in MC West camp. I I
thought the univer I mean the universe
is exceptionally large. We just cannot
conceive how large it is. And I I um
firmly believe that there was life out
there, not that it was here.
Uh, fast forward over the last, I'd say,
three, four years, I have done a I'd say
a deep dive into the history of this
topic and I've read the the raw case
files, the raw blue book case, like uh
no analysis, just right, just the
straight uh reports and um I've come to
a very different conclusion. I'm a big
fan of James McDonald. I don't know if
you guys are familiar with him but um
very very prominent figure in the
history of of um this topic. He's an
atmospheric physicist. Um I encourage
anybody watching to read anything and
everything that he has written. Um start
with science and default. It's a
remarkable um critique of of the Condan
committee which we can get into but um
and his his um bottom line assessment um
was that the the extraterrestrial
hypothesis is the least unsatisfactory
hypothesis for what hundreds and
thousands of people have observed at
close range over the last 80 years in
many cases. Um, I am I'd say I'm partial
to that because of just the the the long
historical record and I've got a ton of
cases that I'd like to get into because
I think they are related to some of
these videos and and we can talk about
that. Fellow alchemist, Lucy Breakers
are changing the game for nicotine
users. If you're looking for 100% pure
nicotine product that's tobaccof free,
Lucy Breakers are where it's at. Each
pouch has a cool twist. Inside is a
capsule that can pop to release an extra
burst of flavor and hydration. It's a
unique experience that makes your
nicotine routine more enjoyable and
convenient. As someone who delves into
the most heretical thinkers and ideas of
our time, I appreciate products that
challenge the norm. Lucy Breakers do
just that. My personal go-to flavor is
mint. Whether I'm deep into a podcast
discussion, exploring new frontiers, or
brainstorming ideas, throwing in a Lucy
is an easy way to keep the day moving.
Plus, the flexibility and strengths let
you choose what suits you best. Let's
level up your nicotine routine with
Lucy. Go to lucy.co/jesse
and use promo code jessie to get 20% off
your first order. Lucy has a 30-day
refund policy if you change your mind.
Again, that's lucy.co co and use code
Jesse to get 20% off. And here comes the
fine print. Lucy products are only for
adults of legal age. Every order is
ageverified. Warning, this product
contains nicotine. Nicotine is an
addictive chemical. Thanks so much to
Lucy for sponsoring today's episode.
So, I think we should just dive into the
footage and you know, can not to just
interrupt, but I just want to quickly
just acknowledge and again I bring a
historical kind of government
perspective to this. Can we can we just
acknowledge what has happened over the
last 5 years? We've gone 80 years and I
I we are literally at the 80-year
anniversary of the first reports of Foo
Fighters. Like that happened November of
1944.
80 years of denial, ridicule, auth
I I love this quote from Mick, June
20th, 2020. Uh this is when Rubio snuck
a uh a provision into you know what I'm
talking about, right? stuck a provision
into uh Senate in um intelligence
committee language and mix quote is
years will pass it will recede in memory
little will come of it. I I assure you
in in in June of 2020 I probably would
have agreed with you.
Um now we have Arrow I think it's about
three four dozen. We just heard
yesterday or with this week that they're
at full operational capability. Three,
four dozen people working at a at a UFO
office, right? 1,600 cases as of last
count. Uh, Anna's director just came out
and said, "In essence, we're I am
baffled. I have an engineering and and
and science degree. I'm baffled. I don't
know what's going on, and I don't know
anybody else who knows what's going on
with some of these cases." And that's
pretty extraordinary.
He was a former NSA director.
He's NSA scientist. Scientist.
Yeah. Um, so, uh, it is pretty
remarkable. We had just about every
single We had former CIA directors,
former, uh, national intelligence
directors, just extraordinary things.
You know, Radcliffe has said
you UAP UFOs exhibit technologies that
we do not have and cannot defend
against, right? Um,
they
right. [laughter]
I'm I'm just I'm just saying I'm just
saying I just I'm just want to
acknowledge where we've come. It is
extraordinary. It is astounding. Right.
I I don't think I I suspect if I had
shown you a picture of Dave Grush
testifying under oath with the former
inspector general of the intelligence
community sitting right behind him four
years ago when you wrote that tweet, I
you would you probably thought I was
crazier than I thought the nothing will
happen was not that nothing would
happen. It was more that nothing would
happen in terms of giving us evidence
that aliens are visiting which is the
thing they really want. I'm actually
really happy that we've got uh all this
progress and we've got this these
investigations and the Arrow is doing a
lot of work. You they're spending
millions of dollars uh on investigating
it and hopefully they will release their
information. Uh I don't think we've
really got much further along the road
in terms of actual evidence of uh
genuinely anomalous phenomena that
didn't exist 5 years ago. The stuff that
ours released obviously like people are
disappointed with that and their overall
assessment is, you know, there's no
evidence of alien life, right?
Uh we have lots of talk about things
going on behind curtains and in in
skiffs and uh in secret and things that
people can't talk about. Uh, and that's,
you know, that's that's interesting,
but I think it kind of speaks to the the
broader problem with with ufology is
that it's always been a bit of a battle
between um hard evidence, hard data, and
cool stories.
We have a lot of really amazing
eyewitness accounts. A lot of the blue
book stuff is is eyewitness accounts,
and there's very little that's you can
actually get that's tangible data.
There's some data that's written down,
but there isn't really very much we can
we can actually analyze. And that's what
we really need to move the conversation
forward. Having people come forward and
say, you know, I worked on a program in
the 60s that did crash retrieval, I
don't think it's really going to move
the needle very much. Uh, unless they
can actually produce some evidence of
something. It's just more cool stories,
which, you know, maybe they're true,
maybe they're not, but we can't actually
do very much with them. And that's
always been the problem. And then
there's the intersection of the cool
stories with the data with the videos
which we'll get into later where people
are you know talking about.
I'll take give you two two points that
maybe maybe give us a little bit of hope
to really address your point and I think
Kosowski has said and the quote here is
um
and Kowoski is the director of the new
director.
Dr. Kosowski is the new director of ERO,
which is the the government's um UFO
analysis office. And his direct quote
is, "We're going to need the the help of
academia and the public to address some
of these cases." And he's pledged
to release them.
Now, I'm skeptical, right? I I know how
the government works. They they don't
release anything they don't have to. Um
but he said this. So, just to just kind
of kind of address your point, maybe
we'll see some more. I don't know. Um I
think that's notable. And then
secondarily, Dr. Kosowski in his hearing
said that at least two multiple
firsthand witnesses have gone to arrow
witnesses of what though
unreported UAP programs. That's the that
was the question from Jill Brown. So
anyway, we we can go down that rabbit
hole but I'm just I'm just saying like
you know the story of UFOs right is okay
there's something coming but there is
we'll see. Um but there there is some
chatter about
Mick. How do you to Merrick's point
there has been a lot of momentum if
you're just tracking social consensus
hype around this stuff. I mean I run a
YouTube channel that is you know really
surrounds this topic particularly I've
seen a lot of interesting
my my site is all UFOs now.
Well there you go. So um how do you
explain that? Do you think it's some
sort of uh coordinated SCOP? Do you
think it's just this contagion mass, you
know, social psychosis thing? What's
going on? I think it's something that
was maybe bubbling beneath the surface
and has just been kind of allowed to
come out. Uh the New York Times story
basically opened the floodgates. It was
something that uh gave validity gave uh
allowed people to talk about it, allowed
other journalists to talk about it and
once you get that going, it became
becomes this kind of feedback loop. uh
people talk about it in the media, the
general public talks about it and then
you know Congress gets involved because
it's you know what people are interested
in and then you can kind of push these
things perhaps without the stigma that
you you had before and if there are
things like uncknowledged SAP programs
which you know I wouldn't rule out of
course you know it's entirely possible
that people were running crash retrieval
programs uh for things that they thought
were were UFOs you know back in the back
in the day uh but perhaps some of those
were under the radar You know, the
government has done dodgy things before
in the past. So, you that's the type of
thing that should come to light. You
know, there's the the the church
commission. Was it the church
commission?
Yeah, church commission.
Yeah. They uh something like that where
we can actually get these things out and
I've been really enthusiastic about
people like David Grush testifying and I
wish he would come out and actually say
more uh because I I want this to come
into the sunlight. I want to know what's
actually going on. Well, if that's your
goal, that's I think the goal of
everybody here. And we we Yeah, we'd
love I I would love for this to either
be falsified for forever or
it's one of those things. It's
impossible to falsify because there's
always the idea that the that light over
there might be an alien. But
well, I what I would say
you can prove it's true. I think there's
not a lot of daylight probably between
us where like I think whatever is going
on is interesting. If it's mass social
psychosis, a coordinated scop, I think
those are extremely interesting because
I think it's the best scop maybe of all
time if it's a scop or something. Guys,
we can talk about this for for hours
without even get I will I will say the
the commentary direct commentary from
Rubio Gallagher, Kirk McConnell, former
Senate staffer, Saskissy, sorry, Senate
Armed Services and the Senate
Intelligence Committees, they have all
stated Jill Brandt her first question in
the hearing there are she said right
there are reports that firsthand
witnesses are reluctant to go to the UFO
the the Pentagon's UFO office. Um, Rubio
has stated very clearly over and over,
these are credible people with high
clearances in high positions and they
fear for their lives. He said that on
camera. Um, that's fascinating. So, if
it's mass psychosis and people in high
positions in government are saying,
"Yes, I was on a retrieval program,"
then we have a major major problem
because they're just fantasists out
there that are uh in in important
positions
in very sensitive areas. Correct. I mean
the other thing I would say is say this
is all unagnowledged deep black
programs. I find that fascinating too.
Yeah, absolutely.
Maybe maybe it's a bit of both. I mean
we do know that there are people in
government who are fantasists like not
everybody who's in government or even in
the military is going to be like on the
level.
Well, the thing that I found because
I've met all these people deep inside
the government um you know post doing
this show uh they are often more
conspiratorial than people who are civil
side. And that could be one of two
things. I could be like, "Oh, that like
discredits them in some way." Or it
could be like they are somehow privy to
a lot crazier stuff and that makes them
more conspiratorial.
Man, can I put you on the spot?
Actually, just curious when Grush says
under oath.
Mhm.
I had the firstand people go to the
inspector general to submit a complaint.
Uh Luis Alzando goes under oath. Yes, we
have crash retrieval programs. Rubio
says not under oath, but he says
publicly in a very long interview,
firsthand witnesses, they fear for their
lives. Kirk and Connell
has been tracking this um and is
convinced that there's something to
this. I talked to a a congressional
source told me um I asked point blank,
what's your confidence level in in the
existence of such programs? The answer
was hovering around 100%. What am I as
an analyst supposed to do with that?
What do you think? Uh, I wouldn't be
surprised if there were such programs. I
mean, this is something I've been saying
for a while.
And that it's NHI and it's non-human
intelligence.
Not that there's actually NHI there, but
there's programs that existed in the
past, possibly even now where some
people who work on those programs think
that it's NHI. It's quite clear from
people like David Grush that people do
actually believe uh these things happen.
They believe that we have bodies. They
believe that we have crashed alien craft
and they believe that there is these
programs to study them.
Maybe the programs exist, but what were
they actually studying?
Why do you think the inspector general
didn't just shut this down immediately?
Um, I have no idea. I'm not really
familiar with what the inspector general
does, but uh, Grush's claims covered a
range of things. You know, there was the
whistleblower recriminations and it
seems a little bit mixed up as to what
the inspector general was actually
investigating and what they're referring
to. When they said
Rubio is very clear, he's the vice
chairman of the Senate intelligence.
Rubio said that the unreported that the
misuse of funds that portion of it not
he didn't he didn't didn't say anything
about the um the reprisal part that the
misallocation of funds was deemed
credible and urgent.
Yeah. Well, if there if there are
uncknowledged special access programs,
I'd be happy to see them like
that way. But
it's interesting because that's also
unfalsifi that's like also in fineman's
not even wrong sort of category.
If they deny it, you can't you you can
say they're lying. you if they admit it
and show it then that's one thing. It's
like you know anything you you only need
one you just need one ace to win the
game. Uh but everything that's not an
ace doesn't mean there's no aces though.
So you think it's going to stay in this
sort of liinal category for a very long
time. I would hope it doesn't, but
I think what all we can hope for really
is to get more sunlight on it. And if
there is something there, something will
eventually pop out. And if there isn't
something there, we will see that, you
know, all the things from the dark
corners become illuminated. And we see
that there was nothing there. And
perhaps there's something in one of the
dark corners is really interesting. That
would be great.
How did nonhuman intelligence get into a
bill sponsored by Chuck Schumer and
signed on to by Rubio Gillibrand, former
presidential candidates? 22 times and
then uh biological evidence of non-human
intelligence.
Oh, you ask Schumer about that. Uh
Schumer said he was doing it to kind of
honor the legacy of his friend Harry
Reid.
So he just randomly puts in aliens in 64
pages just cuz he's buddy. I mean maybe
I don't know.
His sappers did it. Some sapper did it.
Somebody wrote it.
He put his name next to it, right?
Yes. But he does that for everything,
doesn't he? But it's uh he doesn't write
the legislation.
Does Schumer put his name next to
Bigfoot legislation? Right. Like
legislation.
Well, I think I think okay, this is
great. I think we should get into
because this is all dealing with sort of
social proof which does carry a lot of
people. We should get into first
principles. So, that's where I think
both of you add really tremendous unique
value. And so, why don't we start with
the famous Nimttz case of 2004? Uh this
amazing fleer video, thermal video
caught in November of 2004. uh you have
eyewitnesses uh David Fraver who you
mentioned who is really I think a source
of uh belief for a lot of people kind of
proxy belief because he's a very serious
sounding guy you heard him on Rogan and
like I think he was tasked with
defending LA actually uh around 9/11 I
don't know if you didn't know that
because it was like unclear how many
planes were in the sky how big the
threat was right
um and you can you can hear him speak
and he seems very sort of matterof fact
and so but Mick's done a great sort of
debunk on So, why don't we watch the
video
and we'll get both of your assessments.
But before we do that,
uh why don't we do a little rock paper
scissors to see who
I'm happy to take it and just kick it
off or
you want to take
psych me out. Okay, let's do [laughter]
a little rock paper scissors. Rock,
paper, scissors. That's right. All
right.
I knew it. I'm too honest for my own
good. [laughter]
Wait, wait. I didn't even see who won
that.
So, so just for the audience before we
went uh live here, Mick said we we
agreed to rock, paper, scissors. Mick
said he's going to go with paper and I
went with scissors. So, here we are.
Here we are. All right. Well, Merrick,
you take the first one.
Yeah. So, and but seriously, please jump
in if if um you know, if I misstate
anything, but so the background is in
November of 2004,
uh the Nimttz carrier strike group. So
the Nimmits and other vessels, Navy
ships are out for pre-eployment workups,
pre-eployment training basically to to
um make sure their equipment is working
before they deploy and potent and go to
combat. I think they're setting out for
Iraq. Uh so this is right this is early
stages of the Iraq war. Um very high
operational tempo. They're they're
during their training missions. Um the
USS Princeton is a guided missile
cruiser. Um and it is part of this
Nimmits um strike group and it is over
the course of I think a week uh
according to one of the witnesses the
key witness
Kevin Day um
maybe 10 days I think
10 days sure okay um they begin tracking
anomalous objects at 28,000 ft heading
south at 100 knots very strange tracks
that's odd uh occasionally I if I
understand right they you know they're
tracking them coming from above 80,000
ft zipping down um and to the surface of
the ocean or they'd hover around 28,000
ft. Um notably Kevin Day has been very
specific about this and consistent
28,000 ft 100 knots south.
Um
and Kevin Day oversaw radar operations.
Correct. So he's the uh
Kevin Day story has actually changed a
few times and he's he's he's given
different figures. 28,000 ft, 80,000 ft
and 20,000 ft. He mixes things up
and it's changed in other ways as well.
But
I've I've only seen 28,000 ft. All the
interviews I've seen, I think he wrote
it down and he he kind of memorialized
it in his little nolla.
Yeah.
They find this interesting. They wrote
this like
they were clearly stuck with these a lot
of these people, right? You talk anyway.
So,
we digress. Um
and one day uh so so Kevin Day is
concerned that this is flight safety and
it is, right? I mean, you have objects.
I mean, you sanitize your airspace um
and you you want to know what's out
there. So when your when your air crew
are out there that they're not going to
have um you know potential collision
risk. So one day uh he Vector, you know,
sends out um two F-18 Hornets. Um
Commander Fraver is flying one of them.
Uh we have not heard from his backseater
publicly yet. The other plane, Fraver's
wingman, wingwoman, uh was Commander
Alex. Uh she's she's pretty new to the
squadron this probably lieutenant. Um,
Alex Dietrich.
Alex Dietrich. Correct. And uh, in her
back seat is Jim Slate. Wizo, uh, Wiz,
sorry. Wizo is the weapon systems
officer. That's the backseater that does
kind of all the a lot of the tactical
systems. Um, and they get out to this
they call a merge so that they're
basically in the same airspace as uh,
where one of these tracks is. uh look
out and see an object doing basically
kind of like a weird pingponging
zigzagging pattern apparently um right
over the ocean and and there's this
roing water underneath um very strange
um and so you have these two jets if I
understand correctly uh Fraver departs
uh Dietrich stays up high and starts
circling and they they both start
circling and Fraver's going lower and
lower and as he goes down the jet
according to Fraver kind of um reacts to
him coming down and it kind of does a
Fraver does a noise. I don't know if you
guys have seen that but that is somebody
did a a pretty good compilation of um
[laughter] of his reenactment and uh and
then it kind of shoots off uh at just
unbelievable speeds according to the to
the witnesses. Um anything else?
Well, a couple couple other interesting
things he said. So it goes, you know,
it's 80,000 ft and then, you know, right
above the surface of the water. And then
he says goes back up 80,000 ft and he
says and he goes 80,000 feet is space.
So that was like this interesting line.
And then he also says when he sees the
craft and this was I found very
interesting. He was like it almost
seemed like it it knew that he he saw
it.
Yeah. And it recognized him or
something. There was some kind of
aareness.
Yeah, that's right. No, I'm sorry. Good
point. Yeah, now that you mentioned it
kind of so as as Fraver's going down the
circle, the thing does one of these like
kind of a counter circle, right? And
it's a I think it's called a a two. Um
but but um it shoots off and apparently
ends up at a pre-desated
um rendevous point. Let's call it a cap
point. And that is a an area known to
air crew. Um so that is interesting. Um
yeah, it is it is interesting. Uh, a lot
of this information kind of comes
secondhand by various people. They were
talking about the 80,000 ft and you said
Fra said that. Fra didn't see that uh
himself and he didn't even get a blip on
the radar. They didn't actually see it
on their own planes radar. And when they
arrived at this uh location, uh they
didn't first see anything. And you know,
the jets are hauling along at 600 mph,
which means that you're not just
hovering over one spot waiting for
something to appear. you end up a few
miles down the road very very quickly.
Um,
so Commander Dietri, Alex Dietrich
disputes that very clearly. She disputed
that to you as you know cuz and Fra has
said that that log is third hand. It's
just inaccurate. Said
they they both said that they
so they I'm just at 20,000 ft and there
was nothing at 20,000 ft.
So they they both said that when they
merge plot they looked out and they saw
it. Like you're you're you're suggesting
that there's no link between the radar.
They dispute that. I'm just trying to be
clear and she just that to you as you
know,
right?
Uh
I I think Braver himself has actually
said that when they arrived, they had to
look around a little while before they
saw it. I think they was pretty quick.
Dietri Well, of course, like Dietri's
account Oh, let's just leave it at
there's a discrepancy.
Well, no, there's there's there's a
bigger discrepancy. If you if you're
saying that Dietri account matches Fre's
account, you have to say that also
Dietri says her experience only lasted
five, sorry, 8 to 10 seconds. the entire
thing from merge plot to the thing
flying away,
right?
And Commander Fra says it lasted about
five minutes. And he said that all four
pilots had eyes on for 5 minutes.
So using one person's account, you know,
it we don't really know which one was
the more accurate. I would think
probably Fraver because it's a more
experienced pilot. Uh but and he himself
said that it did take a little while to
to find
and Dietri has addressed this and we can
go down this rabbit hole, but she said
like as a number two like she's she's
watching him. She's not watching the
target. She's watching him.
Yeah, but she said from Merge Blot.
Okay. Well,
Twitter, she asked very specifically
that it was from Merge Blot to when the
thing shot away.
Fair enough. I'm I'm acknowledging that
there's a dispute there and that's fine.
That's all right.
A big discrepancy, I think. Well, what
one other thing I think to discuss is
just this idea that this was caught by
many sensors. So, all we have and all we
can go off of on a, you know, first
principles analysis, semi- distrustful
of of government in a lot of cases. Uh,
is this Fleer video and we're going to
play that in post-production. We can
also watch it here if it's useful to
both of you. Uh but they say that they
caught it on phased array radar and then
you also have you know eyewitnesses as
well and so
right
can we even use that as data or what's
what do you guys think?
Uh go ahead. Yeah I think it's a bit of
an issue like some of the stuff like it
dropping from 80,000 ft was something
that uh Kevin Day said that someone else
told him the people that work in the
kind of the missile defense program on
shore told him that they saw it later.
He didn't actually see that at the time.
uh he says like you know it's 28,000 ft
but they went in at 20,000 ft and it
wasn't there there either. So there's a
lot of in the actual verbal accounts
there's a lot of variation. Uh I think
we can get an overall sense that
something happened and there was
something that was showed up on the
radar and they did see some object.
Uh but there is there's quite a bit of
variation.
Was it a seagull Mick? Because I've seen
a video of you suggesting it might have
been a seagull.
I don't think it was a seagull.
Okay. I suggested that when Fra was
looking down, there might have been a
variety of things that he might have
seen looking down like white caps and
boats and things and seagulls.
I think you said I think I said
I I think you said uh I hate to say
this, but there would have been seagulls
out there.
Yeah, there would have been.
Yeah, 100 miles offshore.
Yeah,
seagulls like I I actually looked this
up. Seagulls really don't go I'm not an
ornithologist. Let's be clear. They
don't they don't venture very far from
shore
thing is is I find it entertaining. You
got to go down. He got his kind of
interesting little little segue. We were
talking about Heinik earlier. Yeah.
Uh Heinik was the person who came up
with the swamp gas thing.
Correct.
Yeah.
And then later kind of admitted that he
was lying and covering things up.
I think he was lying about that
particular case. I think then he
actually thought that might have been a
reasonable explanation cuz there was a
marsh in the middle of where they were
looking across. Uh but it it was a
pretty silly explanation and it was kind
of rightly ridiculed by the press. Then
it was seized upon by uh kind of UFO
fans to label any explanation of of UFOs
as being like, you know, it's just they
just say it's swamp gas or they just say
it's a weather balloon. And I think to a
degree the the seagull explanation has
become like the modern swamp gas. So I I
get seagull comments almost every day.
Okay, got it.
Almost every day on Twitter.
So you're saying you you would admit
that seagull is not your base case?
Absolutely. No, I mean [laughter]
like what what Fravis saw was some kind
of tic tac-shaped object. Yeah.
Uh and it's it was it was it appeared to
be moving around. And yeah, if it was a
seagull, I don't think he would have
made that that mistake.
Let's talk about a guilt-free
alternative to alcohol that's perfect
for your dry January or anytime you want
to unwind. Cornbread's organic CBD
gummies. These gummies are an absolute
lifesaver for my evening routine.
They're a natural way to relax,
celebrate, or wind down without the
hangover. I've cut back a lot on my
alcohol consumption over the last few
years. For a lot of you, trying out Dry
January or cutting back generally, it's
not always easy. But swapping that glass
of wine for cornbread CBD gummies is a
total gamecher. It's a simple upgrade to
your evening routine that leaves you
feeling great the next day without
sacrificing the fun. Plus, with all
natural ingredients, they're the perfect
way to stay balanced. Cornbread hemp
isn't just a product. It's a small way
to bring balance into your life. Whether
you're journaling, meditating, or simply
enjoying some downtime, these gummies
elevate the experience without any of
the guilt. It's like having a moment of
calm in your pocket, ready whenever you
need it. Alcohol doesn't have to be the
default anymore. Whether you're cutting
back for dry January or just looking for
a healthier way to relax, you've got to
try Cornbread CBD gummies. Right now,
American Alchemy listeners can save 30%
on their first order. Just head to
cornbreadhemp.com/jesse
and use code jesse at checkout. Again,
that's cornbreadhemp.com/jesse.
Code jesse. cornbread hemp. This is the
good life. And then how many
eyewitnesses do we have? Cuz you have
It's a great Yeah,
we have a few, right?
Can I just quickly back up maybe? Uh,
and gosh, I mean, the setup is taking so
long, we've not even look at the video.
But, um, there's another there's a, I
believe, a squadron commander from a a
Marine Corps squadron that was actually
flying by U. Kurt, I think, is his name.
Curts, Kurt, Kurt, whatever. Um, and he
they decided not to vector him out
there, I think, because of fuel issues.
I'm not sure, but he saw the roing white
water. Didn't see the tic tac, but the
roing white water. That's interesting,
right? Um but to your point for that
that first encounter we're talking about
eight eyeballs on this thing.
Yeah.
Um one of them is squadron commander.
The others are pretty well trained.
Right. Right. And what do you what do
you think about that?
Yeah. I I wish that we' get more
witnesses coming forward. I I think it's
difficult now because it's literally 20
years since this happened. Y
uh and memory faith and Alex Dietrich
herself has said that she doesn't really
remember the details that well now and
probably other people won't either. But
yeah, I think once the you've got past
the initial year or so of of people
remembering things, it it's very
difficult to get that much more good
information and using accounts from the
time if available is usually the best
way, but we don't really have those.
Alex does say she has some notes that
she made and some diagrams. Um,
how do we get those?
Well, you you give her a call and that's
right. Okay. Yeah, let's [laughter] try.
Yeah, reach out.
Um,
well, there are a couple other
interesting things. I think there were
two radar systems, the SPY1B radar and
the APS 145 radar. And we've seen
neither of those. We just have the
Fleer. You know,
this was recorded after. This is like an
hour or two after the video. Um, which I
think that's when you had the E2 Hawkeye
and then the Princeton. Uh, so just to
back up, the E2 was like a flying radar
basically, right? Um, and it had a weak
apparently had a weak hit on this this
target the what's in the video. Um, and
the Princeton did as well, which is how
And Underwood had it on his radar, too.
He said that's right.
Yeah. He said he got a hit on his radar.
He had three radar systems on whatever
that is.
Indeed.
And this is Chad Underwood,
correct? Sorry. Yeah. So, so um that
original air crew, the the uh the four
uh air crew and those two jets go back
uh to the carrier. They get out. Um
apparently Fraver tells Underwood, "Hey,
we just saw something weird. try to go
catch it and and Underwood's really
gung-ho about it apparently and and
yeah, I'm gonna go get it. Um and yeah,
he's vetored out. I'm guessing like an
hour or two after I I'm
It's not clear. They don't say.
Okay. So, they cycle through people
about it and they said they don't want
to I think I asked Kevin about it and he
didn't want to tell me.
Yeah. But they cycle through they uh
Underwood gets out. He gets these hits
uh on the E. Was the E2 high on the on
the E2 on the first encounter or was on
the second one? I And I like I just
don't remember.
I'm not sure. I think there were some
eyewitness accounts from the people they
said they saw it out the window but I
don't think they've actually really come
forward
okay
to
the other swear on it
possible interesting piece of
information which I'll just speculate on
um and that maybe we'll never get to the
we probably will never get to the bottom
of is you have this interesting nuclear
connection with past UFO sightings. This
seems to be some possibly repeatable
thread. You have a great book called
UFOs and Nukes by a guy named Robert
Hastings which I always tell you I think
you should read.
I was reading it on the way here.
I appreciate that.
Excellent book.
And um so what's interesting about you
know the Nimits carrier strike group is
there were likely tactical nukes on
board. Um that yeah just when it comes
to uh uh I think um
yes yeah when it comes to ships like
that
I I know I I can say with certainty that
the I think the Nimtts is a
nuclearpowered carrier. I don't know
about the the weapons and that that's
that's out of my expectations.
It's both nuclear powered and then most
of those hold tactical nukes is what my
understanding but
that's about my pay that is uh yeah I
you got me there. My source there is
Robert Hastings, but
Okay. [laughter]
Well, I'm a big Robert Hastings fan, so
Well, yeah, you would say that's biased.
You would say that's pretty good. I I
think Hastings is very This is a
tangent. We can, you know, um get into
this later, but I I think Hastings is
pretty solid. Yeah,
he uh is Yeah, go for it.
A mixed bag, I would say. I think
listening to to his book, uh he's does a
pretty good job of doing a lot of
research. He's very detailed,
but it does seem very
much re biased towards trying to prove
that point
uh and he'll he'll lay out a few things.
Oh, it could be this, it could be that,
but I think he's actually aliens.
Uh
on the theory side, but on the kind of
what happened side, he's like pretty
empirically rigorous, right?
Yeah. Is repeating things. It's mostly
ironous account.
I got to give him credit. I mean, he's
compiled and from from a I I I take an
intelligence analysis approach to this
topic much more than Mick takes a much
more technical approach, but the the
like the documentation that Robert
Hastings has secured is unbelievable. It
is inc. I mean, it'll it'll it's
extraordinary. Um
it's 170 eyewitnesses.
It's incredible. And also the the the
government documents, right? Like that
that is what that to me is also of
interest. Anyway, we can go that's a
whole other It's a whole other but I
think it's important for establishing
some sort of priors on this stuff
because I you know just to kind of out
myself here as I want to be as much of
kind of a non-factor and just you know
honest judge and let you guys have at it
but my own kind of way I process this is
I usually think these things are prosaic
or explainable explainable way they're
you know air trash or balloons or
whatever
um or exotic you know craft uh but uh I
think in the case of nuclear that might
be the exception just because I think
you have this repeatable you know they
say science needs to be repeatable and
you do have this like really interesting
repeatable thread where you have all
these witnesses who have you know Q
clearances it's hurt their careers to
come out their incentives are not to
come out and if 170 have come out in the
form of this book
and you have a researcher who's now in
his 70s how many more that have come out
there that would be my question to your
point we wouldn't know about these
videos if they hadn't leaked
right
to your point.
Right.
Well, this is interesting too because
let's talk about the provenence of
Nimmits because
uh Nim Nimmits gimbal and Go Fast were
popularized
uh in this New York Times article in
2017. But Nimtts, I believe the video
itself was kind of floating around on
Reddit and it was even on a German
server.
German server and you can still access
it via the archive.org the Waybank
machine. So there's actually a live link
to this from I think I'm not sure
exactly when in like 2010 or something.
What German? This is this CGI. I I did a
little digging into this and quickly
just make a point here like this is when
debunking goes wrong because when that
came out and it was on above top secret
all these message boards or whatever. Uh
people had decided, oh that's a hoax,
that's not real. And then Mick, I got I
I love this. Uh so in December of 2017
um
uh I think uh t to the stars academy put
out a um an interview with I think it's
commander d Alex dedrich and your your
quote here on metabunk on December 30th
is and she she kind of described the
whole encounter and described everything
that you know that we just discussed and
your quote here is frankly it's
laughable that anyone is taking this
seriously.
Right.
I'd have to see a bit more context about
No, it's it's Metabunk Post 84. Okay. Uh
December 30th, 2017.
84 million flare.
Well, so but on on a particular thread
on the flare one thread. So So I'm just
want to be caught like right debunking
can can [laughter]
it can really go wrong because this is
this is the most perplexing arguably the
most video was real from the start as I
recall. I'm not accusing you of
Yeah. So, I mean, the taking it
seriously must have been like, you know,
taking it seriously that this was
something performing amazing maneuvers,
which is something I wanted to bring up.
With all these videos, there's really
two questions that we better ask. The
first one is, is this object on the
screen doing anything amazing? Is it is
it demonstrating unique physics that we
we don't understand or advanced
technology? And then after you've
answered that question or you addressed
that question, the other question is
what actually is it? What might it be?
Do you have a base case assumption
because it it doesn't seem to be flying
normally.
Well, my base assumption for well my
base determination for these these three
videos is that they don't demonstrate
anything amazingly anomalous
and so with fleer specifically
so like seagull is not the base case. Do
you have do you have any other sort of
explanations or you just just like not
anomalous? So knows I think it's some
kind of distant aircraft uh that is not
moving not moving laterally. Like the
the when these videos first came out
there were people talked about how
amazing they were.
Fleer one in particular uh was deemed to
be amazing because the object appears to
zip off screen
and there's parts of the video where
where it seems to like accelerate very
rapidly and then uh it loses track at
the end. And I that's one of the first
videos that I analyzed and I kind of
went through it frame by frame and I
think I showed fairly conclusively that
all those things are just camera
movement.
So and do you really think David Fraver
saw just a normal aircraft?
No, I don't think so.
Okay.
No, these are two separate things. You
know like had an encounter with a little
tic tac of some sort and then this video
was taken hours later. maybe the same
thing, but I think it's probably a
different thing.
Despite the fact that these sightings
had gone on in this little week-long
stretch in November, you you think
they're
the
radar returns had we had we had
[clears throat] weeks of radar return
and then they went out for intercept 14
and then apparently it stopped. That was
it after that. That's what Kevin Day
said after that encounter. They didn't
nothing ever happened afterwards. Uh but
yeah, it's
the the video itself I don't think shows
any like advanced physics or anything
like that. We don't know exactly what it
is. I think it's some type of distant
aircraft that's flying away, but as as
Merrick will explain later, there are
issues with uh determining what type of
aircraft it is, you know, because of the
angles of uh the the the image and
things like that.
Merrick, if you just had the video Yeah.
and you didn't have the eyewitness
accounts. Is there anything that would
lead you to believe that this is
anomalous?
That's interesting. Um I' I'd probably
without the eyewitness accounts, I
probably would have That's a really good
question. Um old me would have just
dismissed it.
Yeah.
Uh the me who's engaged with Mick who is
study this topic would be much more
interested with with absent absent the
eyewitness accounts. absent the
eyewitness accounts, but you know, maybe
with the promise of other, you know,
sensors that pick this up, but that are
too sensitive to release or something.
Yeah. Yeah. It is weird and I Yeah, it
is it's odd. Obviously, just sorry, just
in removing the context, it is odd on
its on its face. On its face.
Uh and and I'll just just to counter
Mick and or just to maybe respond, I I'm
very much on the opposite end of the
spectrum. I'm glad we started with this
case because ruling out a plane is
probably the easiest thing we can do
today. Like it is pretty simple to to
rule out. That's fine. We'll get to
that. Um but um uh so look I mean it's
it is fascinating uh I have based on the
analysis that and it's not just me but
um the analysis that some of my
colleagues and one of them as you know
is a scient California scientist brings
superb expertise to the table um and and
I I would say I'll speak for myself but
I have fairly high confidence that that
was a tick tap shake craft and we can go
through the data you know as we
and then to kind flip it on you, Mick.
If the video didn't exist and you
couldn't easily straw man it with a
debunk and you just had like these super
credible pilots like eight plus all
saying, you know, we've seen this
anomalous thing, would that lend all of
this more credence?
I think uh the Dietrich and Fraver
encounter stands by itself as being an
really interesting event and it's it's
Fraver's account of it that convinces
people. It's what convinced you with
this Joe Rogan thing and a lot of people
on the [snorts] hill have talked to
Fraver and heard his accounts and
they've been convinced by it. So this
video isn't what's convincing people.
It's the eyewitness accounts that do it.
Having this video as well kind of lends
some some credence to those eyewitness
accounts. It says like we saw an object
and here's a video of an object. Uh it
doesn't really look like the same
object, but you know it's it's it's
extra evidence that something was there.
And the more witnesses you have, the
more likely something is to have
actually happened.
So, so Mick, can I just quickly say that
this video is not convincing to folks on
its own, and I think my job here today
is to make it convincing, and thank you
for giving me the opportunity because I
I think we have some compelling data to
show.
Absolutely. Yeah. Well, the final other
thing that I'll say about this case,
which I find interesting, is I think a
new Rathon Fleer system had just been
installed before detection. And uh
Rathon I think came out with a statement
because they were like what's what's
going on with our fleer system. This is
kind of crazy. And Rathon was like we're
not responsible for what you detect with
our system. Which I found very
interesting as well.
Yeah. I think they just upgraded the
system. Upgrade the software perhaps.
Okay. Wasn't I mean this wasn't
publicly, right? So this nobody knew
about this until I mean 2007 people
didn't know about it. I think it was
2015 when Fraver started talking with on
on like fighter pilot pod uh like
podcasts and stuff and it really didn't
bubble up until 1516.
The German server thing is fascinating.
Yeah, it's super bizarre cuz it's like
was it was like a graphic design shop or
something? I think
CGI or something like that.
CGI my mind when I hear that my mind
goes to like
they were trying to see if you could
possibly recreate it
with CGI. Yeah, I I think what happened
there was that it was just basically a
site where you could upload stuff like
an open FTP server
uh back in the day. You would use that
for uploading stuff and they just
dropped it there and that's where it was
for
who dropped it there.
The person who leaked it from
so is it just a leak but on a German so
it was like this a place you would leak
a video like that.
The US military doesn't have the
original. The one that they released is
the same. It's the one that they got
from the German FTP server and then they
released it from the US Navy.
Well, they they just re-record over the
tapes.
Can they now release the original?
They don't have it.
They don't have it. I strongly doubt
there's a wrinkle there. There are
allegations from some of the um the
sailors aboard the Princeton I think
that um people in suits landed in
helicopters and took all the radar data.
I don't know what to make of that. Who
was that?
Um, is it Vorhees?
Gary Ves,
Gary Vorhees, I think he he's mentioned
that and there are a couple others that
have said it.
Okay. Sean Killer.
I don't I I apologize. I just I just
don't know if I know Fra has I think
PJ. Yeah.
Yeah. I interviewed both of those.
Fraver's been skeptical of that
publicly. Um, but I I don't know what to
make of that. So just to the point of
data retention, like it is it adds a
spooky it adds a spooky immaculate
constellation level cuz that's what the
allegation of immaculate constellation
is that all this stuff is siphoned off.
Yeah.
I don't know what to make of that.
That's another good example of how the
stories vary quite a lot. You got all
these enlisted men on the boat who have
these this story about how the data
bricks were stolen and then fra just
happened.
Exactly.
It's um
so it
difficult to reconcile this.
Correct. Yeah.
But you know obviously maybe Fraver
didn't know. Who knows?
Who knows?
Should we dive Should we dive into the
uh Yeah. Should we watch the video?
Yeah.
Think you guys be able to see this?
We're familiar.
[laughter]
This is the start here. So, it's in
infrared mode.
And let's explain. So, thermal imaging,
what is like this white dot in the
middle mean?
Well, it's not actually a white dot.
It's actually kind of a spiky shape at
the start, which is interesting. is uh
is a good valid point. Then it switches
to TV mode and TV mode means um it's
basically a video camera, black and
white video camera.
Uh and we see it's black here. Now I
originally thought this was infrared and
this what this looks almost exactly like
the Chilean case, but of course it's TV
mode.
Uh so this is actually
you what you would theoretically see
like with your own eyes. It switches
back to infrared.
You can see the object kind of moved
around a little bit.
Little spin there. Now that's the uh
camera doing a gimbal roll. It's going
to the camera has to readjust itself
occasionally.
There's another little roll there.
Do we want to get into symbology, Mick,
or or uh
Yeah. Uh well, let's just It's going to
do some interesting stuff in a second,
but yeah. Uh there's kind of one boring
part, I guess. But
okay, so that it looked there like it
zoomed off screen and then this is the
end thing where it appears to zoom off
to the left hand side. Um so yeah the
symbology we got like a whole bunch of
stuff numbers on screen and this is how
we kind of get to do the analysis like
we have the angles we have the the top
of the screen we have the the heading
the azimuth and then we've got the
elevation uh which is um was it like six
degrees here I can't remember
you mean from right to left
no the the elevation
I think it's five it's six up and then
five six then five yeah exactly
uh so we we that gives us kind of a line
of sight so we know that it's somewhere
along this line of sight. And this line
of sight moves from right to left uh
fairly levelly. And so we can kind of
correlate that with uh the other numbers
on the screen which is the air speed of
the jet uh which is expressed in
calibrated air speed. You have to
convert it to true air speed and then
the altitude. We know the altitude of
the plane from there. So you can do you
can use all that to kind of set up a
model of what we're looking at and
what's actually happening. Um, that's
kind of like almost like the second part
of the analysis. Like the first part is
actually is it doing anything amazing?
And we saw at the end of the video it
kind of zooms off uh to the left of the
screen and there's kind of two parts to
that. There's one where it kind of well
first of all it kind of drifts a little
bit and then it seems to shoot off very
rapidly. And people initially thought
that that was it accelerating very
rapidly but it's actually just changing
zoom levels kind of halfway through the
movement. if you kind of undo that zoom
back from two times to one time, it just
basically smoothly goes off. And the
analysis I did on that uh using all the
angles and everything was that the drift
that it moved off from left to right was
exactly the same as the drift that the
camera was moving at. So I think what
we're actually looking at here is the
camera was tracking something like this
and then the camera lost lock and the
object just kept going at exactly the
same speed. So it gives the same effect
of the object zooming off to the side
but it uh it isn't actually moving.
Mick, are you familiar with Yonx's
analysis that it actually drifts off
drifts off? It moves off four times
faster at the very end than it does
during the other losses of luck. Are you
are you familiar with that?
No, but I wouldn't be surprised because
it's only a partial loss loss of lock in
the other ones. It's still basically
kind of tracking it. Uh I don't think
yeah I when you see it losing luck it's
not really lost luck at those points.
Can I just say I'll just we're getting
so in the weeds and I think part of I
just want to say just maybe for for the
audience that
part of the reason that I'm doing this
is I want to engage more people. I want
more people mathematically
scientifically inclined folks to to
grapple with this stuff. That's why I
write these articles. I I'm trying to
encourage interest, spur interest in
I 100% agree. We should we should teach
this in colleges because it's a fun it's
a fun analysis exercise that people can
get their teeth.
Sorry for that PSA, but I I really just
want to convey that. Um
that's part of the whole problem here
between you and I is it's just you and
me, right?
Exactly. And there's a few other people
and there's no reason why other people
can't analyze these these videos. And uh
but it it does take a long time though.
It does.
It does. It is quite a lot of work. I
mean this is like years of work that we
both
put in because all the hard work on on
my side. So I I got to give him credit
and Chris as well. So um yeah.
[clears throat]
And they would say that the loss of lock
just wouldn't account for that sort of
zealing.
That's it's ambiguous. Uh Chad Underwood
who's the Wizo who filmed it, he said,
"Nope, there's no way the system would
have lost it. I've talked to an active
duty Wizo serving now and he said it's a
finick." You I sent you the emails,
right? you remember this and I I made a
point to the system can be finicky and
can lose a lock. So, it's a wash. I
don't know what to make of that.
Is the fleer autotracking or is there
somebody operating?
It is auto track. Yeah, that is correct.
Yeah, it's a pixel. Exactly.
Yeah, it's using the basically the
contrast between pixels and it's like
image tracking in After Effects. You
just lock onto something and it follows
it.
Got it.
It doesn't do a very good job. It's kind
of interesting comparing the technology
in 2004 with the the later things in
gimbal and go fast, which the lock seems
a lot more solid.
What I like about this is I feel like
both of you are being very reasonable.
And if anything, I'm more confused in
[laughter] in a healthy way. You know, I
I really I mean to in my mind the
assessment there might be like the net
assessment quote unquote would be like,
you know, really interesting eyewitness
accounts and then kind of inconclusive
on the video front.
Just wait till we get to the the
analysis.
Okay. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. Yeah. Huge news
everyone. We've been sitting on a ton of
unreleased footage that we will now be
releasing weekly in our new [__] Our
first episode is a completely uncut,
heated discussion between Hal Putoff and
Eric Weinstein on remote viewing. Yeah,
you heard that right. I still can't
believe I experienced that firsthand.
And now I'm happy to share it with you
all as our first exclusive video on [__]
Head over to wap.com/ameanalchemy
premium to become a premium member
today. By becoming a member, you'll gain
access to weekly premium videos,
behindthescenes footage, and monthly
group calls where we discuss the ideas
we love most. Plus, you'll get early
access to merchandise drops, and be the
first to know about the upcoming
conference we'll be holding later in
2025. Our WAP community will serve as a
private space where curious individuals
and tech enthusiasts can come together
to challenge the status quo and explore
ideas shaping our future. If you're
passionate about exploring
unconventional ideas and want to dive
even deeper into our content, I invite
you to join our [__] today. Head over to
wop.com/ameanalchemy
premium to become a premium member
today. Thank you so much and enjoy the
rest of today's episode. Um, all right.
Should we move to uh go fast?
Can we go to the slideshow real quick?
Oh, yeah. I I really want to show you
the kind of the what what road and and
Mick uh you know you know this this is
the the video that you still have up and
I got a bone to pick with you, right?
This video is still up and that it's
clearly not an airline. I mean
you [laughter]
let's describe what we're talking about
first.
Yeah. Do you want to So Mick has several
videos up uh looking at the Fleer One
video and um one of them he hypothesizes
that it's a a distant airliner. I think
you said on a a podcast that it's
probably 50 to 100 miles away.
Yeah. I think this video I made like
what do you remember when it was like
20?
Yeah. I just think it's still up there
and I I think that's that's
misinformation from my perspective.
The description of the video.
You put one sentence on there. Nobody's
going to read that one sentence. I think
it's I think it's very misleading to
have that video still up there. If and
if if you said it's a it's an airliner
wasn't in the video like that at 66,000
ft.
Uh that's impossible. Originally, I had
done this analysis, very much analysis.
This was pretty early on in the
discussion thread, and so I was saying
like what what it might look like. Uh,
and I picked a airliner cuz that's what
I'm kind of used to from this Chilean
case. I was still kind of maybe biased
by by that Chilean case. And I kind of
did a little sideby-side comparison. And
they look somewhat similar. You can kind
of see they look somewhat similar, not
the same. Will you remove that video
because it's clearly there's no
I think I think the basic analysis is
right and I can maybe change the title
of it. So the analysis isn't that this
is what it is is that a blurry shape can
look like another blurry shape.
You I mean you you clearly say in the
video like oh it looks kind of like an
airliner going off to the right.
It does kind of look like one.
Yeah. But it Yeah, but it can't be. So
you
Yeah, but the video is still valid that
it it kind of looks like that. you know,
it's not.
Maybe you understand my point, right? I
think it's misleading. I think it's
misleading to keep
I've added that to the description of
the video. Nobody's going to read it.
Okay, let's move on.
Um, so this is why this is why it's so
easy to rule out a plane. Um, number
one, there's no tail. Boom. Simple.
Number two, um, if you're looking 5
degrees up,
right, the the perspective is if Mick's
theory is that it's another plane, he
uses an F8 another F-18 in his example,
it'll I'm trying to do this for the
camera. If you're looking five degrees
up, it'll have the the the jet will have
kind of like a downward slope like this.
Um, clearly the object is tilted up this
way. And there's no plane. You can
change the plane type. Um, there's no
plane that'll fly like what do you what
do you have this distance plane going
like 250 knots,
whatever. 300. No plane is going to fly
at like a, you know, 13 15 20°ree angle
of attack in 300 knots. It's just it's
just not reasonable. There's no tail.
There's you could ruling out a plane is
the easiest thing we'll do all day today
from my perspective.
Yeah, I think you can though. I think
the problem with this video is that it's
a super low resolution video.
But the angle is really it's crystal
clear.
It's not really like you you you will
talk later about how the the angle of
the sun is going to affect where you're
looking at things. And we don't know
exactly what we're looking at here.
We're looking at a dark shape. Maybe
some parts of that are being illuminated
by the
pale. I mean that's just
maybe maybe that's similar color to the
sky. Lots of planes have the different
uh
different this works by private jet
contrast, right?
Well, contrast in the optical spectrum
has a white tail.
It plane planes cannot have white tails.
This is black against the sky.
You're saying that it's a white tic tac
shape. You an actual tic tac shape.
Yeah, absolutely it is.
And you're saying that it's got all is
this funny weird shape.
Yeah, we we because of the lighting.
So, it's not a plane from my
perspective. It's easily if it could be
a tic tac shape that somehow morphed
into this bizarre peanut shape because
of uh because of the the sunlight and
these little legs that are supposedly
sticking out.
Then why couldn't it be a different type
of plane? Perhaps not this FA18. There's
a whole bunch of different types of
plane.
What plane flies like at this angle?
Yeah, I don't think it is flying at that
angle.
So your eyes are seeing like it's really
not at that angle.
No, I don't think I think what we're
looking at isn't representative of the
actual shape of the the object.
Great. So, anybody who can Okay, it's
pretty clear that it's it's tilted up.
Why wouldn't it be represented?
What do you mean it's pretty clear that
it's
tilted up?
Because you can see with your own eyes,
right?
It's got a pointy bit at one end.
Yeah. And we'll get to that.
So, if it if it's tilted up, then
it's Yeah.
Then it's not If it's It's got a pointy
bit at one end, that means it's not
really a tic tac shape, is it?
Well, that is an artifact that your
software and this is why you make you've
been so helpful. Like you I've shown you
this like you can recreate that effect
in with your software.
You could probably recreate it with a
different plane as well. Something I
haven't done.
You're a big evidence guy.
Try Why can't you find me something with
it with no tail?
I feel it's kind of a fool's errand
because there is not enough in that
video to determine you. Look at it. It's
this blurry blob.
Uh the the video is
you see what I'm you see the the
attitude the tilt is that's just it and
if you watch the whole video you can see
that tilt. It's very it's crystal clear.
You see it turning as well which is
something that's kind of weird. It
doesn't really work I think with the tic
tac tic tac model
simulation. Do you want to just go to
the next image because this is super
interesting and I I owe credit to I
think somebody on on
I think his name was Paul but he did
very simple edits brilliance and
contrast. Um, and no, there's no
trickery here. It's very simple. If you
go to the the next one, please. Um, we
did a 3D model. Um, this is a kind of a
roar shock test, right? The UAP is in
the eye of the beholder. But um and I I
just I need to quickly add that uh both
commander uh Fraver and uh Lieutenant
Commander Dietrich have stated that when
they reviewed Underwood's tapes
afterwards, they saw these little
appendages, these protrusions. Um
which is impossible.
I mean, is it Lonnie Zamora? Like that
reminds me of a Lonnie Zamora craft what
he described. But um
but we know it's completely out of
focus, so you wouldn't be able to see
those. Lonnie Zamore's famous
graph that came down in ' 64 and in New
Mexico
allegedly had little legs but anyway
allegedly had little legs.
This image here I think is very
misleading. I think is basically being
that you've tweaked the amount of
brightness to bring in the edges if you
do that with you just sliding the middle
slider in the levels adjustment.
So we can find that shape if you just do
basic edits is the bottom line.
You can find the gimbal shape and flare.
What basic edits are we doing?
Brilliance and contrast for the
brilliance and contrast. What what
exactly does So contrast I think is
probably pretty obvious. You're
increasing the contrast and then
brilliance is
I think he turned it up. I'm not I again
I didn't do this. Anybody can go that's
the beauty of this and this is why like
anybody can do this would do that. I
think
it says brilliance like light saturation
or what?
Uh I'm not sure actually I'm not an
optical
guy so I didn't do this.
No it's a nonstandard term. It's not
like a Photoshop term. So what what it
gets really interesting is and we can
really drill down to there's you see
that little kind of that that sunlit
section on the top.
Yes.
Um that in fact um we can place this
object and we can see we can actually
find which direction Underwood was
flying
and we can see where the sun was at
around 330 320ish give or take and you
can recreate that in a three and this is
the first time I'm really presenting
this. We're very excited. We're going to
put this in a paper very soon. Um, but
you can actually recreate that effect
and see where the sun is. Uh, and it and
it in 3D you can move the sun around and
and it gives you that effect.
Um, interestingly enough,
and that lines up with his position,
correct? In reality,
correct? So, let's go to the next one
you, Mick, you brought up. Oh, it's
black. Well, this is this is TV mode.
Those F18s are not black. They're light
gray, right? This is that's how that
system works.
Exactly silhouette. Yeah.
Yeah. So, that's why we have a a black
shape. human. It's not some something
you can't say that it's the same because
it's the same color. It's
No, no, I'm just saying it doesn't mean
it's a different color either. We don't
know what color it is.
But you moved off the plane thesis. You
don't think that?
I don't think we can rule it out.
Okay.
But you have to provide us one option
like just prevent some kind of like
propose one plane that would fly like
this.
Propose one type of UFO that could fly
like this.
Right there. It's a UFO is just
unidentifiable. the model in vertex
sport model obviously I'm just saying if
there's
that's impossible for him to answer
a plane that fits uh that could you know
flips that that profile silhouette with
the lighting you know we just don't know
which
I have a couple more just do you want to
do you mind yeah sorry uh run through
this so this is you talked about that
that peanut yeah so this is I used mix
this is mix oh weird
well just you know what's in it so
you say it we'll put it in
post-production
yeah so um when you when you actually
edit the video to kind of recreate the
graininess and the the out of focus, you
can recreate the tic-tac shape.
You can recreate it. I mean, it's not a
plane, guys. Like, it's it is just it's
it's extraordinary to find a match like
a remarkable match with what eight
eyeballs saw two hours earlier. You can
recreate that with mix software.
With my software. Yeah. I wish I I did.
No, thank you. And and I I did that for
you, Mar. [laughter]
But isn't that compelling that maybe
this is just sensory data?
There's a couple points that
I'll say one thing. Thank you, Mick. I
We owe the UFO world owes you a huge
debt of gratitude for the amount of work
that you put into I'm glad you're
finally getting paid. I don't know who's
paying you, but um uh No,
wait. What is
truly no by who?
Someone I can't name. Okay.
What what Mick has done is is incredible
and it allows us to test out everybody's
theories. Not yours, not ours, not
anybody's. Um and and so so thank you
for that. I I mean sincerely just just
real quick like uh the reason this
software exists is actually because of
you.
I appreciate it. And we were rec
the the original gimbal simulator which
is the the granddaddy of this was
because Merrick was getting so annoying
with this consistent consistent
criticism that I had to like finally
make a a good like video and I had to
write all this software to do it and
then I wrote this nice long video and
but Mick you always say like oh god you
know the these account eyewitness
accounts are always so incredible but
there's never any data to back them up.
Here's a tic tac with little legs, which
is exactly what what Fraver and the
amount of blur that you had to add there
to make them make them match
would mean that they wouldn't be able to
see those legs.
I'm asking is give me a plane SR71.
I don't care. Put on the legs.
Well, how can I make I I like
blurry. Uh
well, what what I guess uh Mick, what
would you say to the fact that you can
do some slight edits with a program that
you built that allows
this is just to recreate one frame? I
think what would be interest Oh, okay.
Fair enough. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Uh the actual object itself appears to
do this kind of weird rotation and get a
bit more pointy at one end.
Yeah.
Uh which I kind of interpreted as being
like a plane turning, but uh
the pointiness is recreated. It's it's
an artifact of that front appendage. I
sent you the video lighting, but we
don't we don't have the rotation the
matches
in your highest percentage likelihood
thing is plain still even though there's
some issues.
I don't know like uh you know Mar brings
up some good points and and Yanick uh so
you know I think what I would say is you
can't 100% rule out a play.
I feel comfortable doing it. There's no
tale and it matches what
and I think 100% ruling out things is a
huge mistake that people have
historically made. I think of the
Chilean case. They spent two years
ruling things out and they were wrong
because they ruled out a plane right at
the start and then this this the tail.
You can't see a tail.
Of course you can. What about the
remember the video that uh that that
Jesse sent us a few days ago of the tic
tac the shaped shaped thing?
Yeah. The over
and you said that you agree with me that
it was a plane. Sorry. It has no wings.
And that's a very common thing that
people see like in in the
So what was that?
It it would have been another plane.
I'm sure there's another plane. Yeah. Go
to the next flight just real quick. I
think so. This is how we were able to
place it. Um there's a consistent
rightward banking and you can kind of
see it here. [snorts]
Um and that's how there's a strong and
thank thank goodness Yannik is a climate
scientist. Uh sorry buddy. I hope I
didn't out you. Um but he has access to
extremely nuanced weather data and we
can find out we can if you go to the
next slide there
um we can look at the weather data from
that time at that altitude and there's
an extremely strong northerly wind
coming from uh from the north about 100
110 knots.
And in the video you see this kind of
this consistent rightward banking which
is the autopilot compensating to
maintain a straight heading as it uh as
it goes. And that allows us to place
that the heading of that of that plane
and see okay well now we know where the
sun is and then we can we can match the
sun with the top of that um that that
illuminated
issue with that is that planes don't
need to bank.
Oh
to maintain a heading.
Is that true?
Yes.
Okay. And then we discussed this. So you
said that you thought that they did but
a bunch of chat GT things
talking about crabbing right?
Uh no. Well, I'm talking about the
difference between like the the true
heading, the ground heading, and the air
heading.
Right? So, to maintain a particular
ground heading, you just need to have an
air heading that incorporates the wind
vector.
So, uh the autopilot, you can see at the
bottom it says HDG, that's heading. So,
that means the nose is going to maintain
a heading.
Yes.
It's the same thing.
Ground tracks are relevant.
It only would need to bank if the wind
was changing.
No, it needs it needs to stay the nose
is going to stay at, let's say, 270,
right?
Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. So,
how's it how is it maintaining?
You point it in the direction you want
to go
and you go in that direction or else you
point the you point the velocity of your
plane in the direction you want to go,
which might involve you turning a bit to
the side, but you don't need to bank to
do that. If you bank, you'll keep
turning,
but it's consistent, right? It does
this.
No, it's just wobbling a little bit.
That was greatly magnified. That was a
thing I sent you years ago
that uh it and it's it goes in both
directions
to one side, right? It does go actually
to the the other side a little bit.
Anyway,
it doesn't [laughter]
you're fundamentally wrong with the idea
that you need for the audience to turn
to the to the side.
It's a 100 knot wind coming in.
It doesn't matter. It's completely
irrelevant. It could be a thousand knot
wind.
So if if the wind is pushing the
aircraft,
planes fly relative to the air.
Yeah. uh that altitude the air is
basically just uh a constant homog
homogeneous mass and there's no real
turbulence there to speak of in terms of
like differentials between the the wind
directions. So if you if the wind is
moving like this uh and you want to be
flying in that direction you'll just
have to like turn a little bit into the
wind.
That's called crabbing.
No that's called changing the heading of
your plane. It's called crabbing is
something where you actually kind of
slide the plane a little bit. You're
using rudder. Exactly.
Yeah. But that's that's we're not
talking about that.
No, we're not talking about that.
Yeah. Your your velocity relative to the
air is just, you know, straight through
the air.
Okay. Let's move on. But this to the
audience on whether we can [laughter]
cut that out or whatever. Yeah. No,
leave it in. Leave it in. Yeah. But but
boy, a plane need to bank in this
scenario.
There's a consistent right banking which
which our hypothesis is because of
theund 110 knot winds. So, real quick,
last last point on this. Do you mind
just going up one more?
This is uh one more. Sorry, just one one
higher. Y up. Sorry. The other way.
Oh, up. Gotcha.
Last but not least, um we can actually
So, um Kevin Day said that these objects
were at 28,000 ft. Uh I'd be curious to
see if he has said other, but everything
that I've seen is he said that 28,000 ft
heading south at 100 knots. We can find
that in the data. We can find the Chad
Underwood object moving south at 100
knots uh at 28,000 ft descending slowly
but um we can find that as a very very
anomalous flight path. So again we can
find very very specific descriptions of
what the witnesses recall in the data.
That is critical and we see that with
with gimbal as well.
Do you not find that compelling?
You can find all kinds of things in the
data depending on what your parameters
you put in. This is at the distance
roughly that that Underwood gave. That's
important, right?
You can find basically a straight line
path as well of uh of the object moving
away consistent with it being a plane or
some similar type of aircraft. Uh and
you know if you change things around,
change with the way the wind direction
is then you can find different things.
If you move change the distance, you can
find different things again. Uh I don't
think like this is the only solution
here.
No, but it's it is a potential one. It
is remarkable to find that in the data.
That just doesn't happen by accident.
That of course suggests that what we're
looking at is actually a balloon.
That is absolutely so absolutely a
possibility. Yes. And that and balloon
would explain the the radar targets
possibly because they're moving with the
wind. You know, we have this wind as you
described earlier moving from north to
south.
Far more uh reasonable explanation than
plane.
I wouldn't rule it out. I would rule it
out. I think you know, like I said
before, my analysis of these videos is
kind of two parts. Is it doing anything
amazing?
And what is it? And I don't think it's
doing anything amazing. I don't think
drifting south at 100 knots is doing
something amazing.
Uh it is very weird at 20 what? 28,000
ft. What What do you know that does that
is that size?
A balloon.
That's that size.
A balloon be that far off the coast.
Uh I don't know. It could be some kind
of military balloon.
Uhhuh.
A balloon used for surveillance.
A weather balloon.
This is 20 years ago now. Literally.
What kind of propose some option. You
can throw spaghetti right against the
wall. This is a debunking playbook, but
provide some options. What could it be?
I I think we should move on.
Let's do it. [laughter] Yeah, this is
great. I love it. This is awesome. And I
think there a lot of open questions we
just presented that the audience should
go out and investigate.
Please, by all means. And so,
I don't rule out I don't rule out these
these options, but I think you should
also rule out a plane. Okay, let's get
into uh the Go Fast video which was
recorded in January of 2015, 300 miles
off the coast of Jacksonville, the USS
Roosevelt. Uh so Merrick, you set up the
last one, right? Why don't you set up
this one,
Mick? This is a fun one. Uh this this
appears to be something that's moving
very fast over the surface of the the
water. uh is similar to the Fleer one
video in that it's it's thermal uh
footage. This is all thermal. There's no
TV mode.
So, I think they do switch between black
hot and white hot. But what we're
looking at here is the surface of the
ocean and we see this object and the
object appears to be um colder than the
surface of the ocean, which is very
unusual for a a powered craft. Um we
have a variety of numbers on the screen.
Uh we have the angle down minus 23 at
that point. Is it 2029? Need my glasses.
Uh and and then we have the the heading
which is off the top of the screen, but
we actually do have that. And then we
have a range value. Now, unlike in
[snorts] the FL one video when they lock
onto this object, uh they actually do
get a range number. There's some dispute
as to actually where that number comes
from, like how far away is this object.
Uh we don't know if it came from a radar
hit or if it was some other way of doing
it. So we're not entirely sure how
accurate it is, but if you assume that
that number there is relatively
accurate, you can do a reconstruction of
uh of this object. And uh it turns out
to be going a lot slower than initial
estimates. Like initial estimates
predict I think are somewhere around 600
knots
[snorts]
u u mac max 6 point something or other.
Uh and it turns out to be going much
much slower. So definitely under 100
knots and some disput as exactly how
fast it's going. Uh I've done some
reconstructions where it's about 60
knots. Uh Yanick just pointed out one
where he's done where it's more like 90
knots and he said that's also consistent
with the wind speed. So my hypothesis
about this one is that it's uh probably
just a windb blown object like a
balloon. If we do some analysis as to
the size of the object, we can determine
it's not particularly big. It's about 3
to 6 feet in diameter. So something just
like a weather balloon seems like a
reasonable explanation for me,
especially as it doesn't really do
anything amazing. And this one's really
interesting because Arrow just came to
the all domain anomalous resolution
office. We just, you know, we're talking
about its director. Uh came out and they
said that this is possibly parallax. And
so they're saying that there are
probably, you know, certain things in
the sky that we can't classify, but they
are kind of coming out against this
video in particular. This video is also
interesting because uh you have audio
associated with the video and the guy
goes, "Whoa, got it." And I just
interviewed Navy fighter pilot Ryan
Graves who testified before Congress
also under oath and he kind of admitted
it was a buddy of his who he thinks is
kind of beyond
they're very close friends. I mean,
they're super close
close friends. So yeah, what's what's
your response to to Mick here?
Um, I I think we would I'm very
confident that we would have not had
Arrow come out with this assessment at
the recent hearing if they had actually
talked to the air crew. And I have a
major bone to pick with Arrow. They
didn't talk to the air crew about this.
Why wouldn't they talk to the air crew?
I don't know. And it it fits in with the
blue book, the the debunking playbook of
never talk to witnesses. Just
Yeah. Just just throw something out
there. Um, I don't know if if this is
part of the old guard, the the previous
director who I think has rubbed a lot of
people the wrong way. Um, rubbed me. I
had a long discussion with him. Um,
rubbed me the wrong way. Um, so I think
that's a massive oversight. It's it is
an analytic failure for them not to talk
to the air group because clearly those
guys were excited by something. There's
a reason. You don't just lock up some
little random object in the middle of,
you know, the 300 miles off the coast of
Jacksonville, Florida. Oh, by the way,
this is 10 minutes before the gimbal
video. Oh, by the way, this is amid
daily um uh observations or or you know,
sensor observations of spherical objects
off the east coast that are as Ryan told
you and has been very public about where
a a safety of flight concern and b were
operating in very anomalous ways per
their you know their their systems.
They're locking them up on fleer on
their their training their infrared
training missiles on their radar. Right?
you have multiple three four sensors
their eyeballs are seeing them sometimes
occasionally. Um so it is a massive
analytic oversight. Um I I am I have
major bone to pick with arrow about
that. Um because Ryan just came out on
your show uh and uh or on your in your
discussion said that this was part of
and I think you said it previously but
shocker this was part of uh this was one
of four objects that were in a line of
breast formation right so they're kind
of like cruising along all next to each
other. Um that's not weather balloons
don't do that obviously. So I I don't
think we we would be having a very
different discussion if arrow had
actually done their job.
And this is it's right above the surface
of the water right.
No I actually I I I think
it is or it's not.
No it's not. So the air crew did not
name this go fast. I don't know who
named it. Um I so I I you know I think
Ryan has said command Lieutenant Graves
has said um you know all the Pentagon
did is debunk the name which the
Pentagon I think the Pentagon itself
gave the the video.
Um so uh I I you know look there's a I I
want to just be very clear there's a
reason you don't just this is like a
tiny needle in a haste. You don't just
find something just slur slewing your
your targeting pod around the ocean
there. They had a there's there was a
radar hit that gave them some kind of an
indication that there's something there
and by the sounds of their voice. Um
what they were seeing visually did not
match up with the radar that they were
the data that they were getting.
That's really a reach I think trying to
fly. What's it doing? Right. What are
whatever they said like they're they're
very surprised by it.
Yeah. They were surprised that they
caught it on their uh on their their
flare.
What's it look at it fly is the actual
word.
Yeah. Well, it looks like it's going
very fast. Well, I don't think they're
stumped by parallax. They might have
been, but the bottom line is you'd be
surprised. I mean, the pilots are
stumped by parallax all the time.
Bottom line is that Okay.
Can we describe what parallax is to the
audience?
Yeah. Paral is just when your viewpoint
changes, uh, things that are closer to
you appear to move faster. So, if
you're, you know, looking at the wall
over there and you looking at my thumb
and you move your head, my thumb appears
to move that way. And you think that
multiple eyewitnesses saw parallax even
though the gimbal video was recorded
like minutes after this?
The the Go Fast thing isn't multiple
eyewitnesses seeing things. It's is
these people, these two guys in a plane
seeing this thing probably just on the
screens. And so all they're seeing is
this display. The the the field of view
here is about it's less than one degree.
It's tiny,
which is a really really powerful zoom
lens, which is the biggest zoom lens you
could get. Uh, it's equivalent, I think,
of uh, over 2,000 mm SLR.
And this is in uh, this is in an F18
Super.
Correct. Okay.
Correct. Yeah. Two-seater.
Yeah. I just mean eyewitnesses like
they're they're like they're actively
looking. It's not auto tracking like the
N thing. That's what I mean. Not not
eyewitnesses and that they're seeing the
object.
Correct. People did look at the video
afterwards. Ryan Graves said he
described looking at the gimbal video.
At least I'm sure he must have seen this
one. Well, you know, it's really
interesting though. we have all these
witnesses coming forward now. It's it's
a shame that they didn't come forward
years ago. Uh because this is new
information.
Absolutely. And we might be hearing more
from as as Ryan said on your show and
and sorry Ryan if you're watching. I I'm
I think he's annoyed at me because I you
pay me. When's your buddy coming out?
When are they going to come out and
talk?
I I would love more information.
Yeah, absolutely. Because this is the
same guy who recorded the gimbal video
which is the poster child, right, of of
this whole
Well, the guy needs to come out.
Yeah. [laughter] I'll do an interview
with you
guy wherever you are. Yeah. Um uh but
again I I I cannot stress enough I' I'd
love to hear him ex expound or kind of
expand rather on um
on the formation. Uh
I mean your point here is that you you
don't think he's doing anything amazing
in this video, but you think there's
something amazing about the situation
formation. Absolutely. Absolutely.
This video doesn't show that we've got
this kind of secondhand 10 years later,
20 years later thingy. to your to your
point. Uh yes, it might actually be
doing something. Uh Yannik, put this in
all caps.
Assuming the range is exact.
Mhm.
The best visual match, this is a
scientist, folks, not me. The best
visual match in Mick simulation has the
object around 100 knots, not 60 knots as
Mick claims. End quote.
Yeah, that's assuming the is accurate,
which is as we discussed earlier is a
very dubious thing. And was it not
moving against the wind or or was that
just gamble was moving against?
We don't know that because if the if the
if the the w the the aviator who
recorded it comes out and says, "Oh,
yeah, we were freaked out because it was
moving against the wind."
Well, that would be great, but that
hasn't happened yet.
I I'm just saying that's why we we
really need to hear from but we I I
really want to hear about the formation
and if if there's any way he remembers
what direction. Maybe that's why they're
so surprised that it wow that tiny thing
is moving against the wind. We don't
know. Bottom line is Arrow dropped the
ball in my opinion.
Yeah. Well, we need more We need these
guys to come out and we Yeah, they need
to at least behind the scenes interview.
And Arrow, I'm going to put on my my
ex-government hat here. Arrow
kind of um put themselves in a really
tough spot because they came out and did
this. Now you're going to have air crew
come out and and um contradict you.
That's a that's a terrible position for
a government agency to be in
potentially. Well, he already did,
right? I mean, through through
What are they contradicting?
I mean, and all they said was that it
appears to be going slow.
I'll tell you exactly why. Because it
says um the arrow conclusion, what is
it? It u it does no anomalous maneuver.
All right.
Okay. If it's part of formation,
doesn't do any anomalous in this video.
If it's holding formation, that is
anomalous maneuver.
Well, in strong wind,
no. Uh four objects blowing in the wind
will stay in the same formation
for either
300 for 300 miles off the coast.
Well, really they're in formation at
that point. balloons are going to stay
in a perfect or we don't know it's
perfect, but you
we Yeah, we don't know exactly what the
formation was. Was it a perfect straight
line?
Uh, we got to hear more about
We got to hear more from this this this
person.
I agree.
Track him down, Jesse.
I'll do my best. Yeah, I'm going to have
Brian right after this and say we should
we should do something.
And I again, the context is so critical.
10 minutes before Gimble, 10 minutes
before the like the most right anomalous
or or at least strange video that that a
lot of people have have seen. Mhm.
Was that was that verified the time that
it was before?
Yeah, you can see the time stamp on the
bottom
screen that kind of wraps around. I
think it doesn't show the uh doesn't
show the
I'm I did I I'm pretty I'm pretty
confident it was right before.
So, it could be anywhere.
Yeah, it doesn't matter that much, but
wondering if there was some verbal
confirmation from a witness.
Should we watch it? Anything else on Go
Fast before we go to Gimble?
Uh no, I don't think there's there's
much there.
Okay.
Uh that we discussed.
Okay. Yeah, we can play it in post
again. I'll just guys, Arrow, your job
is to investigate UFO videos and data
and this is one of three of the most
recognizable video. How do you not talk
to the air crew?
Arrow should release their analysis, I
think.
Do do you agree that it's kind of
egregious that Arrow did not interview
the air crew?
I don't [clears throat] see why they
wouldn't have done it. It's It seems
like it's a data point. Uh
I mean, they even got the the year wrong
in the slide. It said January 16th. Like
that's weird. Well, I mean, I have a
major bone to pick with the analytic
side of Arrow, as we all know that they
have really done a poor job on a lot of
their reports. So, um, we I don't need
to belver that. I'm I'm optimistic that
the new director will
um change things around.
I I think you know, you you and I both
know that Arrow have done said some
things that are incorrect. You you've
had conversations with
basically just it was astounding and I
don't need to get into it, but
he's said various things in public as
well, which didn't really tally with
reality.
Yeah. Uh that's a very diplomatic way
hearing he, you know, he said some
speckles on the screen were stars when
they were obviously not stars.
Weird.
I think he phoned it in. I think he was
close to retirement. I don't know.
I think I think he's more there as a
standing up the organization rather than
being an analyst himself. So he wasn't
that familiar with everything.
And to his credit, he did stand up the
So
the first time that he talked to me, but
I was
and solved a lot of cases. Do you guys
ever wonder if any of these things are
sort of roarshock tests or like
initiation paths for, you know, your
your uh analytical rigor abilities or
whatever? And so like some of these
videos are like halfway truths and it's
like, you know, our job to somehow solve
it and then you solve it, you get in the
program or something
cuz the taxpayers need to get their
their money back. This is this is pretty
this is pretty awesome.
It's a waste of time in in a nuclear
multipolar world that that's heating up.
That's kind of a why are you playing
puzzle games with the American people?
Right. Okay.
Right. Well, because of that
legislation.
Yeah. Well, I do want to say it's
interesting that I just on the Tic Tac
video.
So, my buddy Chris Ramsay, amazing
magician, has a channel called Area 52,
but he's he's actually kind of good when
it comes to this stuff because he's the
Area 52 is about around the UFO thing.
He's actually believes in a lot of the
UFO stuff. As a magician, he debunks
other magicians.
That's great. So, he's kind of like a
good person to like throw at this whole
topic. He was flying a commercial flight
over Nellis testing range and he saw
that that tic tac that I showed you
guys. You both said probably prosaically
explained. Um I'll I'll play the video,
but why why prosaically explained? Cuz
it it is interesting in the context of
of favoring a tic tac,
too. It's a super common sighting and
before they would describe them as being
cigar- shaped.
Uhhuh.
Uh and what it is is just planes. The
fuselage of a plane is eliminated by the
sun. Uh but the the wings are either a
different color if you from above like
the gray wings you see plane with the
gray wings
or they're not being eliminated by the
sun cuz the sun's above them and you're
below them. So you will see basically
just the fuselage of the plane the
bright white thing and at that distance
you just can't make out the wings. And
when you take a video of it doesn't show
up on the video and we've seen this
numerous times. We've uh tracked I've
seen it myself flying down to LA once
and you can just like you know get the
location and find which other planes
were in the area and just drop it in to
to sit by my software and you can see uh
what it actually was.
Gotcha. Well, yeah. No, that's that's
good to hear. I mean, the way in which
that didn't comport at all with the
Fraver eyewitness account is it wasn't,
you know, going right next to the water,
shooting off, you know, exhibiting all
these anomalous flight characters.
You never see these uh amazing maneuvers
unamiguously on video. It's either it's
supposedly dot in the distance.
You certainly do in gimbal. You see very
anomalous and fantastic,
anticipatable. And then the the the like
how put off rebuttal to what you just
said Mick is especially when it comes to
kind of optical sensors like just
cameras you get these kind of you know
uh blue shift red shift effects where
you're stretching light if you're kind
of moving away you're kind of crunching
it if you're moving close you get these
kind of ultraviolet
doesn't make any sense though is an
excuse for why we can't get these things
on video but people see these things and
they have these accounts of them it's
not like your your eyes are somehow
physically different to a camera they're
little photo receptors in the back and
there's a lens in the front and it works
basically exactly the same way. It's
just, you know, it's a chemical
electrochemical reaction rather than a a
sensor array.
Well, do do you think I mean that's
somewhat of a biochemical reductionist
view of like the way we see things? Do
you think that consciousness
Well, the way we see things is
extraordinarily consistent with the way
cameras see things. If you take your
camera and take a picture of this,
you're going to see pretty much the same
thing.
It's not like we're magically
[clears throat] conjuring up things in
this room in our brains. There's a
physical reality that we can see and the
the same physical reality is what
cameras take pictures of. And so if UFOs
exist in physical reality and we can see
them, then we can also take pictures of
them.
Yeah, I think that's fair. I think you'd
have to get into kind of uh trippy
philosophical discussions around, you
know, widening the doors of perception
or can you kind of glitch into like
other realities and we don't need to go
there, but [clears throat]
basically magic at that point. Oh, magic
or a different theory of mind which you
could you know get into. I mean that a
lot of you know uh uh pretty well
respected philosophers and and and
people like Aldis Huxley, William James
and you know there's even modern
neuroscientists would would you know
possibly agree with you have Donald
Hoffman talking about the the the brain
is sort of an interface but anyways we
don't need to get so let's let's get
into that. Can I say one one [laughter]
more quick on go fast just because it it
does appear spherical right like if it's
a balloon it's
very hard to say it's about six pixels
across
but and I already mentioned this this is
amid right daily uh encounters but the
sphere is that that one uh uh mor you
know morphology that shape that keeps
propping up just over and over in the
historical record starting with 80 years
ago with the foo fighters then you have
metallic uh s I'm gonna quote right
there's a whole bunch of stories in 1944
Newsweek
ran the silver sphere sp puzzle um
Christmas day in 1944
Associated Press balls of silver scene
over the German Reich intrigue science
right so there there is uh consistency
if you read uh uh Captain Ed Rupelt he's
the first director of blue book his his
book the report on unidentified flying
objects 1956
is a remarkable read and that is just it
is staggering and that's that was that
what really got me down the rabbit hole
he mentions just over and over these
sightings of these metallic spheres,
silver spheres, metallic spheres flying
in formation, V-shaped formations. We'll
see that in gimbal. Uh, you know, we'll
talk about more photos of metallic
spheres.
It it is extremely like Eisenhower was
aware of the Foo Fighters issue from 42
to 45. You had around or possibly over
200 uh uh fighter pilot witnesses when
it came to, you know, allied fighter
pilots seeing these things. You had some
that were kind of prominent. Ted
Stevens, who later became senator uh in
Alaska and co-sponsored UFO research
with Harry Reid through OAP,
uh saw a Foo Fighter. OAP is why we're
having this whole discussion.
There's a chain you can draw a direct
link OSAP to ATIP to to Lu Alzano to New
York Times. That's why we're having this
conversation, right? So, it's
fascinating. Just I'll quickly just wrap
up. Kurt Patrick, former director of
Aeros said uh quote, "We're seeing
metallic orbs, direct quote, making very
interesting apparent maneuvers all over
the world." That's interesting. Nobody
in the NASA panel, by the way, raise
their hand when he said that. Like,
these are scientists. Why didn't every
hand go up? Excuse me. Could you clarify
a little bit? Right. Nobody asked a
question. The the the the chair of the
panel was texting on his phone as he was
saying that. It's pretty astounding. Um,
Top Gun pilot Jack Stewart came out a
couple maybe a year ago. I think Ryan
mentioned this on on on your discussion,
but um he's flying along and and notices
some something whizzed by his canopy.
Kind of thought it was a balloon. Okay.
his wingman saw it, right? He's flying,
I guess, somewhere somewhere in a in a
in a position to see his tail and he
said, "Yeah, dude. That thing turned
around and followed you." Um, goes on,
uh, Donald Trump has said, "I've had Air
Force pilots, you know, very, very good
guy, better than Tom Cruz, uh, and come
out and say, you know, we've had
spherical objects, circular objects out
fly our F-22s. That's the most one of
the most advanced aircraft in our
arsenal." this this consistency in the
Korean War you see this reporting uh in
in
there are good reasons for this
consistency I think how do you how do
you
I think there's two reasons why we see
spheres a lot one is that there's
balloons up there and the other one is
that a lot of people are just seeing
very small things that are far away and
they interpret that as a point of light
as a sphere because they they're asked
what shape it is that's one of kind of
almost like a mistake that people make
in UFO reporting is that they ask what
the shape is and they give them a list
of things to do and they don't say you
It's a tiny dot that we couldn't say.
But the balloon thing is interesting.
Like you mentioned the German things. Uh
weather balloons get a bad rap. But
Germany at that time was actually using
metallic silver balloons as sighting
balloons which was an old fashioned way
of determining the wind speed at
altitude. You would release a balloon
some known distance away and then you'd
use a theolyte I guess to to measure
measure the angle.
But but fighters were not really
described.
Fighters. No, that's different.
Different thing. So, so
they would they would follow vapor
trails that seem to lock on to flight or
fight path. So, it's a really
interesting government report that I
think is well the earliest known
assessment uh I think is a 48 and I
credit to John Greenwell for putting it
on his site. Um and I think it's project
sign one of their first reports. I think
it was late 48 but it said the the most
commonly reported shapes or morphologies
are silver discs and spheres and balls
of fire. And then they go on to
hypothesize that the balls of fire are
viewed at night and the metallic spheres
which again there's that through line
all the way through are viewed during
the daytime.
Did they all disappear when cameras were
invented?
Uh Kirk P there's a Middle East orb is a
metallic sphere like like
a metallic sphere. Go fast arguably is
in the public domain. Like America is a
big country and there's like a billion
cameras in America and we don't really
have any good videos of these.
I don't disagree. Oh, actually that's
not true. There there's a ton. That's
not true. LAX has had uh that's not
that's actually not true.
The Manchester one.
Sorry.
Do you think in the Manchester one?
No. No. LAX.
Let's keep going. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. We can go on on
Okay. So, let's go. Uh gimbal.
Gimbal.
Do you think there's anything?
There's probably enough unique to say
here that we should we should hit this
cuz we are a little
I think we can wrap up here. Absolutely.
Yeah.
No, but I want to get into contemporary
stuff too, but do do you think this is
definitely worth touching on?
Absolutely. I think this might be the
most compelling. So, should I set it up
real quick? Um
Yeah. Yeah. Why? Yeah.
So, very very quickly, um this is Ryan
Grave Squadron. I think it's VFA1, the
Red Rippers. They had just done a fairly
complex air-to-air training mission.
They're just like uh the the tic-tac
incident. They are I believe this is a
pre-eployment workup cycle. So they're
they're doing their training before they
they ship out to the Middle East. And uh
they had done a um a pretty complex
air-to-air mission off of Florida. So
the carriers out there, they're heading
back to the ship. Um and one of Ryan's
buddies, the the Wizo, the the
backseater that we were talking about,
they're
Wizo is weapons.
Thank you. Yeah, the backseater. um
they're circling the land so they don't
all come down at once. They kind of they
hang out. So, you know, they they clear
the airspace and um uh they got a hit on
their radar and and um to to this object
and they went to go investigate um and
the video kind of picks up as they're
they're kind of trying to sneak in
behind it on what they call it a stern
conversion. Um, and yeah, the video
captures some very interesting
maneuvers.
And this is Yeah. So that that's what's
why it's called the gimbal, right? You
see it sort of rotating in this
interesting way.
Well,
look, go f look go who named go fast.
Clearly the name wasn't correct, right?
The air crew didn't name it. Some
somebody at the Pentagon named it. So
So is is the name gimbal correct or not?
Because it could be correct because
they're calling it that because it's
tilting or it could be correct because
it's the gimbal motion of the camera
which is causing the rotation. I love
one of your first thoughts was that it
was a training video that that uh that
people told me it was a training video.
Who told who told you?
Who told you that? [laughter]
I don't remember now. But uh I asked
Susan Goant and she told me it wasn't a
training video.
Who said the last
Susan Goff?
Oh, Susan Gooff.
But didn't Susan Goff like run SCOP for
the DOT or something when it came to
rallying support for the app Danny War?
I'm just telling you what she told me.
Yeah. [laughter] Okay.
Don't take that. She wrote a a an
academic paper on psychological
operation. Okay.
So that's why there is suspicion of her
thesis I think.
Yeah. Some
then she seems to be kind of tight with
Kirk Patrick or at least in this the
context of one conference they were kind
of
I met Kirk Patrick in person and I was
there at that incident and she was
attached at his hip would not leave.
So that's interest. So you have this
this is the former director of Arrow
this office we keep bringing up the kind
of authoritative all domain anomalous
research
uh office and uh you have its former
director uh Kirkpatrick speaking at some
event and then Susan Goff is just kind
of like trailing him.
So this is like November 2023 I think at
uh George Mason University. So, I was
there. I just happened to be in DC for
um for other business and uh I went and
had a chat with Kirkpatre afterwards and
Susan was right there and and that that
continues if you saw the current
director John Klosski just testified
and Susan Goff's in the background in
the background. Right in the fridge and
so there's this like you could you
probably find like millions of Reddit
threads memes are just out of that she's
like the handler.
I mean there must be a reason why she's
there. So, I mean, the simplest reason
is that she's there so that he doesn't
say things that he's not supposed to
say,
not because there's something
I don't like him to say things that he's
not supposed [laughter]
you see behind people and they never
whispered to her and asked her whether
he should say anything, but then she
would leap in and stop him if he said
something.
I've been around a lot of senior
government we talked about that like I
that is unique.
That is unique. It does seem a little
strange that I would like to hear what
the explanation is. But
but she says she said that the gimbal
video is not a training video.
Yeah, like a couple of years ago.
Did she say anything else? Did she say I
think this video?
No, she she gives these boiler plate
answers for a lot of stuff.
Bit frustrating.
Okay. Like say a lot without saying
anything.
You like 10 questions and seven of them
come back as like we don't discuss that.
It's more words.
Got it.
It's a little frustrating.
How are you able to get in touch with
her?
Just email though. Wow. All right.
She doesn't answer my emails.
Yeah, I was gonna say [laughter] I doubt
she would answer mine as well. Um, okay.
So, um, yeah. So, I guess it's probably,
you know, you set this up, right? So, do
you have anything to say on the gimbal?
On gimbal. Yeah. Yeah. Gimbal. Uh, I
think again we've got the two aspects of
it. Is it is it demonstrating something
anomalous? And what is it? And with uh
the the anomalous thing that people
claim in this video is that it's a
saucer-shaped craft like a flying saucer
that kind of tilts up on its side, which
is aerodynamically impossible. It would
kind of fall out of the sky if it did
that. Uh uh and that proves that it's
some kind of, you know, advanced
technology, possibly aliens. Uh the
analysis that I've done suggests that it
might actually be a camera artifact
rather than uh the the actual shape of
the object. So, what we're seeing here
is a source of shape.
Mhm.
It could be just the glare. I know
Merrick doesn't like the word glare.
The experts don't like it. They don't
know what I'm talking about when I say
it.
And the problem that the problem with
that is that we don't actually have in
in optics the the terminology for things
like glare and lens flare often
overlaps. Uh it's
called blooming. It's a well sense of
bloom is is is something that people
sometimes call glare as well, but we
don't know what's actually going here.
But basically there's an optical effect
here and there's a number of indications
in the video. You can see for example
there are bands of of light and dark in
the background that rotate with the
object itself uh when it's rotating
which kind of suggests that it's the
camera that's doing the rotating rather
than the object itself. Um there's
things that look like little defraction
spikes on the the top and bottom left
and right and even a little bit hint of
them at 45° on this object which make it
look like it's some kind of optical
effect. uh there's there's instances
where the the turn rate of the object
kind of seems to deviate from the turn
rate of the the horizon. And then
perhaps the biggest thing is that the
amount that it rotates and the speed and
the time is all exactly the same amount
that would be required to for the camera
to have to rotate to traverse the
forward-looking direction. Cuz these
cameras talking a little bit. It's not
mounted like the cameras you see under
like helicopters or even like uh like um
a drone where the camera's like this and
it can rotate around like this. It
doesn't have the ability to rotate
around. So it has to rotate using a kind
of a roll plus a tilt which means the
camera rotates
uh and then that makes the picture
rotate. So it has to drotate that
afterwards inside the camera using
either a device or using some kind of
software to rotate the image and that
rotates the image back the right way. So
nothing appears to rotate but this
optical effect within it because it's
tied to the camera. The optical effect
rotates. So it's like a glare that
rotates. Like if you look at say this
light over here, you can kind of see
like around the light there's there's
kind of a shape little spikes and
things. Um, if you turn your head, let's
see, and it's a better thing if you look
at that light, squint a bit like that.
Squint with your eyes and then kind of
rotate your head left and right,
you'll see the kind of the the rays that
come from it are kind of rotating
around.
Yeah.
And that's what's happening, I think, in
this video.
Uh, there's an optical effect sim what
you saw there. Got spots in my eyes now.
Uh, and the rotation plus the drotation
creates this this uh illusion. So, it's
like a a camera turning plus lack of
focus or something.
Yeah, the lack of focus actually might
be something that's actually going on
there as well, which the the focus is
something that actually changes the
shape of these uh these these optical
effects. And Mary doesn't like glare, so
I'm going to call it an optical effect.
I think there's I think there's enough
evidence in there that that's actually
happening. Beyond that, we don't
actually know for sure what we're
looking at. And my hypothesis is that
it's a distant jet. And the reason I
think that is that if you do this
analysis with the lines of sight, you
can find a path in the distance that's
more or less a straight line. It's kind
of like a slight s turn about that.
Uh and if you come closer, you get these
kind of weird uh kind of like J hooks.
They've been described by Ryan Graves, I
think. Uh, and there's some debate as to
whether this this straight line of a
possible jet engine powered aircraft or
this J hook powered by some kind of
weird anti-gravity thing is the more
plausible of the two explanations. And a
lot of people,
you know, UFO fans, uh, would go with
this one because it matches the verbal
description and the distance that was
given. I think it started out they
originally said like 8 to 10 miles they
changed to 6 to8 I think 6 to8 is the
current estimate of of the distance 6
to8 nautical miles and if you do the
analysis there you do get this kind of J
hook which does somewhat resemble the
verbal description of uh of the pilots
or Ryan Gray specifically when he
describes what he saw on the the radar
page the SR page
so that's the kind of simple theory
thanks guy it's
What do you say, Merrick?
Aam. I say aam. So I I uh I put the
you've seen this before, but it's it's
quite simple. Uh on one side, what the
aviator what the air crews say is is a
remarkable match with the data and the
video.
On the other side, you have these
cascading malfunctions in this this um
anomaly, this um artifact that nobody's
ever heard of. Like I and and I've
looped you in with I think several of
the top experts in the world on this.
Not not heard of it when we've got
videos of it happen. Not this video
other videos.
Who you there's no there's no there's
zero evidence of what you're proposing.
No, there's zero empirical evidence of
what you're
evidence of glare like day's videos for
example.
That's all blooming. So point is uh I'm
on I'm on team AAM here and I'm on uh
all the data lines video
razor.
Sorry. Yes. So aam [clears throat] razer
named after William of AAM the most
parsimonious simplest explanation is
usually the the right one.
It it is the the assumptions here the
cascading of failures and malfunctions
that and and unseen um uh artifacts uh
that Mick proposes and requires for his
theory is just I I we'd be here all
afternoon and probably through the
weekend.
Still a lot missing from the left side
of that page though. Okay. You
[clears throat] have to uh kind of you
know my side of the page basically gives
a complete explanation. and your side of
the page just says, "Oh, it was some
kind of thing that was
Can I Can I bring my analytic kind of
perspective to this?" Real quick,
why is it AA's razor?
Uh, well, because I don't have to
account for an extraordinary amount of
malfunctions and never before seen
new technology.
So, new physics.
So, AAM says nothing about the nature of
an assumption. He's talking about purely
about volume and the number of
assumptions.
He's not talking really about
assumptions. He's talking about uh
entities. least least number of entities
to explain it.
Correct. You have to create a big new
entity which is an entire proponent on
the nature of the ent let me just bring
him the analytic perspective. So, so
with super interest,
he can't just count entities and say
like I have one.
All right, let let
a will be rolling in his grave if he if
he
Well, I think AAM would be rolling in
his grave if it was used in a
rationalist framework because he was a
13th century monk and so I think the
fact that
he probably wouldn't mind invoking
angels.
What's that?
He wouldn't mind invoking.
Oh, he wouldn't he wouldn't mind
invoking God because that's the the
least number of entities to explain any
miracle. But uh so let me let me just
let's let is just operate off a
hypothesis that this was in fact a a
very bright very anomalous let's just
say sauce or shape cropped. Let's just
let's just go with that just for
hypothesis. At the end of the video it's
it's on its edge right slightly over.
Okay fair enough. But it's on its edge.
Well it goes past vertical.
Okay fine.
No just no fairly fiddly with my
details.
No that's fair enough. Um and and
according to the air crew, there's no
evidence for this, but according to the
air crew, it wobbles after the video
cuts out, right?
Yeah. Yeah. That's I think Brian Graves,
did he say that? And yeah.
Yeah. So maybe if the come out, he says
that's interesting. So let me just put
on my my analytic hat real quick and
bear with me. I'll do this as quickly as
I can. You mentioned the Theodolite the
the tracking. So, in the 1940s,
um I'm going to list several cases here,
and they get very interesting. 19 April
1947, this is months before um Kenneth
Arnold's sighting, which kicked off the
flying saucer uh craze, if you want to
call it that. Four months prior to that,
two Weather Bureau employees uh observed
four metallic discs flat on the bottom,
domed on the top. and the US government
assessed because of because they
occurred previous to Arnold's sighting.
Um they were not influenced by hysteria,
mass media, anything like that. They
were they were reported internally. They
never actually said this publicly. So
that's that that is quite interesting.
Now let's move on. Portland 1947 July uh
five law five police officers see uh a
total of nine discs going different
directions. So, five cops, three cops,
and one cop see different discs going in
different directions, wobbling or
oscillating. You can see this in uh the
project sign raw reporting. New Mexico,
this is in uh the very famous Life
magazine article of 1947. One of the
Navy's top astronomers observes and
takes very precise measurements of a of
a of a disc that and he observes it
wobbling.
Uh Msawa, Japan, 1952 training uh
exercise. Uh guys flying doing
intercepts and he sees a disc come up to
his plane that engages in a slow
fluttering motion rocks back and forth
uh and and uh flipped on its edge.
Direct quote direct quote flipped on its
edge. Um Southern California Loheed
Martin um air crews uh is in the air.
They see a metallic uh sorry elliptical
object um flying over the Channel
Islands kind of a hot spot if you're
following this. Kelly Johnson, who is um
the uh skunk works, the basically the
the most famous, the most well-known
aeronautical engineer in American
history, sees the same object from his
ranch. So, you have two different
perspectives. Uh and um they both saw
this object. Pretty credible. He
actually goes on to say um I'm a
believer in flying saucers. The most
kind of credentialed uh aeronautical
engineer that we know of that in in
American history. Exer New Hampshire
1964.
Um, four people, two cops see a large
disc from a 100 feet away and a 100 feet
altitude engaging in a wobbling motion.
Westall, 1966, Australia, 200 or 300,
depending on the account. Uh, students
and a teacher see a silver disc sort of
banked on its side, then took off at
1,000 mph. Beverly, Massachusetts, 1966.
Uh, nine witnesses, two law enforcement
officers see a metallic platelike object
uh that hovers 20 feet according to
three women over their heads. 20 feet. I
see Mick rolling his eyes. I'm just I'm
reporting what what people have have
said.
Uh, May not Air Force Base, home of
nuclear weapons uh uh uh missiles. A
border patrol officer sees a metallic
disc, direct quote, wobbling on its
edge, 30 feet wide, 100 feet away. Um,
six day five days later, uh, the,
uh, the lot of UFOs wobble.
The Air Force I'm these are these are
all in government records, right? Are we
are we noticing consistency? I'll I'll
finish up. We'll be quick.
Yeah. Pick the ones that wobble. Yeah,
they're they're these are the close
encounters and and the probably the best
known encounters and you do see a
consistency here, right?
Uh well, I if they're close enough if
these witnesses are close enough to
observe wobbling, I think they can see
the shape, right?
Quickly, um finish up. Portage County,
uh law enforcement officers chase a
large metallic disc-like object for 90
minutes going 86 miles. um Michigan
swamp gas. Uh you also see large
disc-like objects. Redlands, California.
This is one of the the most
extraordinary cases that is really
hasn't got a lot of of um press. 200
people see silver disc 40 to 50 ft in
diameter, 200 feet altitude. Um 1968,
Redlands, California. Um James McDonald
did it. Um fair enough. Broad Haven, UK,
10 students. see a silver disc. They
draw pictures. They're identical. Ariel,
we all know the Ariel case. A lot of
people know the aerial case. 62 students
see a silver disc. Pictures identical.
This disc is surrounded by
are not identical. There's a huge
variety.
It's all the same. It's all the same
kind of shape.
They look vaguely like a variety of
children's drawings.
What I'm saying is uh you have this
extraordinary amount of failures, never
before seen, uh artifacts that just
happen with all the things that are on
that thing. And then they all have to
happen. I think there's some
What What are the failures? What are
everything that I've ever hypothesized
as if everything has to happen all at
the same time, which isn't true.
Of course, it has to happen, right? Cuz
you have a radar malfunction or so.
What's on the radar?
I don't know what's on the radar.
You don't know what's We have to account
for it, right? In your theory, you have
to account for it.
Well, it could be a distant plane.
Well, what's on the radar that's 6 miles
away? That's
We don't know. It could be It could be
like a training exercise type thing. We
should say it wasn't. Or it could be a
malfunction or it could be some kind of
weather. It could be balloons. We don't
know what it is.
Uh it well they're going west so it's
coming from the east so it's going
against very strong but we can roll
we can just cross that out like the the
the air crew saw something on the radar.
Yes, I agree with it. You have to
account for what it is. You didn't
account for what the object actually is.
You just said the the air crew saw this
object. You're not telling me what it
is. So it's the same thing. I'm not
following. But but the bottom line is uh
and can we pull up the video because the
match the match between
um the the flight path that we can
reconstruct
Don't mind the fbombs.
My god.
They're all going against the wind. The
wind's 120 knots to the west. Look at
that thing, dude.
And that's the anomalous thing about
this video is you have 120 mi not wind
against.
Correct. Well, it's not like planes
can't fly against the wind. It's a
balloon. So could we rule out balloons?
No, I don't think this is a balloon.
Balloon was
the objects the objects the fleet is
going against the wind.
Right. So you just said that those could
be balloons. Can they are they balloons?
No, I didn't say those could be
balloons. That's a different fleet. This
is a fleet of five objects able to
rotate like that. I mean that doesn't
the fleet described by Ryan Graves is
nothing at all like the go.
We should really dive into the empirical
evidence. Let's get to the evidence,
right? and and we have a lot if you mind
just flipping over to the
video.
We have empirical evidence of what jets
look like uh in with this camera system.
So, if you just cruise down maybe we
don't have time to get through all this.
I mean, we have a ton of that. Let's
just start there. That's Yeah. Yep.
Actually, so maybe we can I don't know
if we can play it here, but um maybe we
can add this in. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
We can reconstruct and and Mick
mentioned this kind of this this
vertical U-turn, this J hook path that
that matches precisely with what uh the
air crew say that the uh that the object
on that was tracked on radar does. And
when you play that video, you'll see
that there's there's a series of
rotations and then um there's one really
kind of pronounced one that is that is
slower than the others and that
coincides with the apex of that turn.
And if you play it, it it is a
remarkable match. And I got a couple
other videos there that maybe we can
throw in when we edit this. But using
Mick Sim, again, Mick, thank you for for
uh you know, making this possible. It it
is a remarkable when you watch that
thing just ride up the um the
reconstructed flight path. It is it is a
remarkable match.
You keep saying remarkable. I think you
I think you use that word a little bit
too much cuz this isn't remarkable. What
we're seeing here is a curve that's
basically a mathematical projection.
It's not the path of the jet onto a
straight line in the distance. If you to
take what the actual jet did with the
camera did, which was just basically do
a little turn like that, and then draw a
line over here, which is another jet,
and then draw the lines of sight between
the two, you're going to get these J
hooks. If you slice a plane through the
the lines at that point, and if you move
them closer, it gets a bit more curvy,
then it kind of flattens out. But if you
draw it there, it's just a mathematical
projection. It looks the same. It looks
like the same curve. And this rotation
of the object that Marrick talks about,
yes, it happens at about the same time
as that curve. It's exactly the same
time,
but that's the same time that the that
we're traversing the uh the singularity
in the the gimbal and it has to do these
rotations. So, it's doing this these big
rotations and it's not the same. It
doesn't match the curve.
It happens roughly in the same region.
We can pull up your Sim right now. You
want to pull up your Sim right now and
do it. There's three other rotations
that don't match.
The one big one is kind of roughly at
the end, but it doesn't really match.
It's it's it's kind of like a bit of a
reach. It's not remark. It's not a
remarkable correlation. I will let the
viewers when we when we maybe we can
edit you know put this in but I I I
really want to show people what then
this is directly from mixim um I think
more importantly let's just bottom line
this um
well real quick though on the the just
the audio associated with this
do you think the operators of these
systems are confused at what they're
seeing because they seem to think it's
remarkable so they're eyes on them
they obviously don't know what they're
seeing which means either it's just
something that they don't recognize uh
yeah but I If you're using the camera's
rotation as a way to explain it away,
then presumably that would be very easy
to be like that was just the camera's
rotation. That's not there's no wow
factor at all.
The smoking gun for me was that it
rotates in steps and that system there's
zero empirical evidence to uh No,
there's no evidence that you asked him
if you he had seen that before and he
said yes.
Yeah, I don't he seen it. You don't
believe him. He's he's the expert. It's
absolutely possible. Um, no, no, nobody
else has has seen that and is aware of
that. That's fair enough. Um, but we did
talk to truly the top experts in the
world on this. I
won't go on the record, surprisingly.
Uh, that that's and that is part of the
stigma. I I had a Zoom call with one of
those individuals. I sent you.
Can we say who this is or
I can't unfortunately I um and I had a
Zoom call.
And when you say experts, experts from a
military perspective.
So, let me just run through. So, we
talked to a ra a senior Rathon engineer
who was, let's say, intimately familiar
with the system. I don't want to give
away too much. Uh we talked to
two of the I'd say the I think it's fair
to say that the two top academic experts
on this type of technology. Not the
fleer, not the So we have the at fleer
sensor technology.
Yeah. It's called indium antimide.
Correct. Right. So um and and they were
all truly perplexed by it. U they the
one that I talked to and to your point
about why won't they go on the record?
Um he said I am I am intrigued by this.
I sent you an email. This is very
interesting. We had a long talk. I don't
want to get involved in this, but highly
credentialed. Um, but just the stigma is
still there. And
And what did they say? Did you give them
mix
We had a lengthy So basically they
debunked Mick's glare on the glass. Do
you would you agree that they debunked
your your glare on the glass?
The glass and the glare on the glass is
a pretty old version of the theory. But
no, that's what you've been saying until
we engage these expert. That was your
theory.
Yeah. You did just say old version of
the theory is if you're the theory is
glare on the glass like was just one
possible way that you could get this.
But that's the one you that's the only
thing you've said for seven years. You
never
No, it could be something along the
internal optical path of the the the
thing and I basically the aperture uh of
the camera creates this
there's no such thing as what when Mick
talks I really want to show people what
what this looks like. what he says glare
is glare is called blooming and that's
when and I'm not a scientist but I've
read enough of and I this is part of why
I want people to get engaged um
glare blooming is when when there's so
much energy being directed at at um a
pixel that it it overcharges it and it
spills over and there's no way that that
could result in that. We agree the
blooming it's blooming could not and
sorry I disagree
you don't how could blooming
uh blooming could create a shape I don't
think it is blooming but
I've got one of the experts right here
said no blooming in the uh in India
mantime would not explain this
right after he said Mick might be right
but for the wrong reason a different
expert um and then we had here I'll just
I'll just leave it at this the one of
the top academic experts deferred to one
of the top government experts on uh
air-to-air fleer imagery. This guy, and
you saw this, right? He he and he he
specifically
refuted your theory, and I will read it.
I'll read it. The object in the video is
definitely maneuvering causing the
appearance of rotation.
I think
a D-roll axis of the payload would not
make this phenomena of rotation. This is
specifically to your theory, and this is
this is arguably the top expert in the
US government.
I think airto-air fleer
imagery. I I think really he uh he
you're interpreting things that he told
you.
No, I No, no, no, no, no. I'm talking
about the government expert.
Yeah. Are you reading verbatim?
I'm directly quoting and I put this on
public like he said to me, I would not
want my response sent out as I am
government and it might be seen as an
expert official response rather than an
opinion based upon limited real
information. Okay.
I just wanted to point some things out
that others may have missed.
Okay. Well, I'm I'm reading what he
said.
We all we all have limited info. I guess
to specifically, you know, to Merrick's
glare point, uh you mentioned Okay, that
that's probably like the earliest
version of the argument. You've updated
it. You're talking about the internal
optical system. What does that mean?
What? Yeah. What What is your argument
now? Because now that glare has been
ruled out, what what is it? Because
these guys are saying glare in quotes.
Yeah. But then they don't want to talk
about glare. They
No, they didn't. He says there isn't a
point spread function. Then he talks
about a point spread function. He's
he puts glare in quotes and he says it's
all an internal and Yannik did a did a
great job. Yanik said how do you
reconcile this quote glare on the glass
all the self- congratulating discussions
on metabunk about glare for glare being
simp
uh that glow that grows with the t all
the you know right how do you and and
this is the best part so mix big
explainer videos based on a um a a cheap
what is it 200 bucks fleer camera that
this expert said is not It's not me at
all. That was just an example of how you
can get a rotation glare.
He literally calls you out. It's not a
good comparison. There is no there's no
empirical evidence.
A flare one which cost $200 versus an
app flare which cost a million dollars
is not going to be a very good
comparison.
So anyway, bottom line is we we have a
lot we have a ton of of airtoair
[snorts] footage. Um and there's zero
empirical evidence.
Experts who don't want to be quoted.
Okay. You want to loop me in cuz I
looped you in all the experts. Luffy in
or what?
Emails.
That was it.
That was the email. I asked him if I
asked him if I could reuse his
I'm sorry. I thought you were bringing
somebody new to the table. So So every
the other expert, the the Raian
engineer. He said uh he told you not
to to include him. Like he said like he
he says I gave you permission to publish
to share any of our discussion. I now
regret any discussion with him.
I I'm putting out I believe that this is
more important than the stigma. These
guys are fighting a stigma.
So you think
and you're and you are talking me, but
they just won't talk. They want to go
on.
No expert in the world agrees with you.
I know you're eager for Arrow to debunk
this because you thought they were doing
um lab experiments that Kirk Patrick was
talking about. It's been seven How long
has it been since this video came out?
Almost a decade, actually. Gosh, we're
on a decade now.
Well, I was only working couple of
years, I guess.
Yeah, you think slow. Very slow.
Well, they did Auadia. They're doing a
whole Aren't you on a show where they
interesting thing I see Aguadia like
when you talk about
No, let's stay on let's stay on gimbal.
Well, this was very very quickly. I
think Auadia has the uh the um SCU the
the coalition for study of uh they did
like a 200page document on it a bunch of
different experts people with PhDs. They
think it's uh they think it's some kind
of
Why do you think Arrow hasn't or anybody
hasn't Why has nobody backed you on on
your on this theory and why? Yeah,
they backed me on a back on the triangle
on Gimble. On gimbal cuz they haven't
finished their analysis yet.
Okay. I think that's that's a stretch.
Um why is there no why is there no
academic literature that supports your
glare theory? It's all blooming.
It's not something that happens all the
time. If it was if it was common, we
wouldn't be having this discussion. This
is an anomalous event. This is something
that happened that was weird and the
pilots didn't recognize it because it
isn't something that happens every day.
This is an active duty whiz though based
on them being a narrow field of zoom. Uh
I sent this to you years ago. Narrow
field of view zoom 2. He uses this
system daily and the fidelity of the
picture. They're probably less than 10
miles away.
I don't know.
He uses the system every day. Life and
death, right? They need to they rely on
the system.
Yeah. I never see how that can be
determined from what we're seeing on
screen.
Yeah,
if you point the camera at the sun, it
doesn't look like it's 10 miles away,
but you'll get something.
One other one other fact I just want to
introduce is that possibly this was also
in involved the formation of of other
correct. That's the fleet. And and Ryan
has done it to his credit um and we can
maybe throw this up. I put it in the
slides, but um he's recreated this and
it's kind of a a V-shaped formation.
uh when the object does this very
bizarre kind of reversal of direction
with no radius of turn, they kind of do
a jumbled turn and then they proceed and
go in the same direction as that object.
So it they're all moving together in
concert basically is is the recollection
from from the the top down
view from from the radar.
His uh his recreation isn't actually
that good because it doesn't incorporate
the rotation of the plane.
That's fair. Um but what is your theory
now that that the glare in the glass has
basically been ruled out? What what is
your theory?
I think what we see here is some kind of
optical effect that is rotating because
of some d- rotation mechanism.
And what what evidence do you have for
that?
Well, there's very start there's the
bands of light and dark rotating in the
background. Does the fact that the
rotation exactly matches the needed
rotation.
So, no, it doesn't right. You don't know
what the pitch angle of that jet. You
picked a random number.
It was 3.6, which is exactly what the
F-16's
F8. So, they were in a max endurance
profile. You were in a max range
profile. You already have you're already
wrong right there.
Well, if you change that, it doesn't
really change it very much. It just
slightly offsets the curve.
It changes it. Anyway, it does change
it. Um, we can go down that rabbit hole,
but
we good. We should not right now
obviously [laughter]
um bottom line is I think uh we need to
hear from hopefully from from the
You can see by looking at it that it's
an optical effect. Uh that if you
actually look at this thing, you see the
the light and dark rotation in the
background. I know you said you you
talked to anonymous experts who won't go
on record.
I don't I shared you I sent the email to
you.
Yeah, but like if it's not going on
record, it's kind of useless.
Well, you okay. Well, you know, I I do I
loop you into So, you've brought none no
experts to me. I brought all the experts
to you.
Well, that's that's great. But if bring
some experts to the public,
it's not that useful just bringing
Unfortunately, the stigma that you
promote is is a big part of why they
don't want
I encourage them to come forward. Like,
come forward and I won't laugh at you.
But I mean there's lots of scientists
who aren't like afraid of being uh being
proper analysis.
I'll uh kind of straw man both the
arguments here. I think um
on Americ
to to to gain confidence on this both on
the expert side and then the operators
of these fleer systems uh and the pilots
themselves. And then on on your side,
uh, Mick, I think you probably have to
take primmaaccia,
you know, uh, this this this operator of
this fleer system, this this, uh, pilot
who is, uh, saying, whoa, like this is
this is crazy like that. I mean, they
they have to I mean, the idea that it's
an F-18 and that this is happening
around uh, the Go Fast as well, and that
it's in this bizarre formation. And if
you turn the camera and you're the
person turning the camera, you're
actually operating the system, there's
no reason to freak out. There's no
reason to like attach that audio.
They're not turning. It turns
automatically.
Sure. But if you're like if you're like
highly aware of like the the camera
turning if you're like
not though I mean David Fra like kind of
discussed this hypothesis and he said
the camera doesn't turn which later on
because from his perspective the camera
appears not to turn. A camera turn is
when it tracks something going
underneath a plane. It can do that.
You're saying David Fraver isn't like uh
familiar with like
with the with the inner workings of the
camera. He's familiar with using it.
So he knows he knows what buttons to
press and you know what what appears on
screen and what it actually means in
terms of what's in the air. But he
doesn't know what's actually going on in
the optics, what the lenses do, the
mirrors do, and how it rotates. So, so
you think it's it's like and then that
same guy who you know presumably I mean
we have to figure out who he is but has
like some history doing this stuff
right
after he sees this
he doesn't see anything like it
that's why we got this video it's this
once in a 20 year thing
when the pilot says they won the lottery
of uh
a little bit of jargon here
and it just happened to occur right
right amid all these en encounters when
the pilot says that is the LNS I'll just
explain the LNS is the launch and
steering which is the selected radar
target what does that mean to you that
so let me just explain like the Wizo
says hey is that is that our radar
target on on our fleer on the camera and
the pilot says yes that is our selected
radar target which is 6 to 8 miles away
what do you think the pilot meant when
he says that is and what do you think
what do you think he meant when when u
they brief Congress and says we knew it
was not a false hit. Um we knew that we
had a stable a stable radar lock a
stable track file on it. Um
when they mentioned closest point of
intercept it make you know do you know
what the jhemic system is right? it
places. How does how does your theory
square with all the technology?
Let me just quickly it's a it's
basically like an Apple vision kind of
thing visor that puts data. Yeah. It
pumps all the data and you you'll get a
little box like where if there's a
target somewhere
Ryan talked about is in your
So, so how do you square like let's just
start with the LNS, right? The um pilot
says that is yes that's our radar
target. It's actually a bit instinct as
to what he actually says. But what we
see on the
That is the LNS.
What we see on the screen here is an
optical track. It's actually tracking it
using the the um the contrast screen.
So what you might be referring to is
something that's on the SA page.
Uh which would be like the nearer radar
target.
No, the the Wizo asked, "Hey, is that is
that thing that we're looking on the
fleer thing looking?"
He said, "Is that
I'm trying to remember what
is that LNS, dude? Is that
that is the LNS?
And the other guy said, "Yeah, that is
LNS."
But he doesn't know what he's referring
to. It could be like radar target.
That's what the LNS is.
Well, yes, but like is that that or is
that a difference target? Because they
also saw this fleet of things. So, so
there just happened to be a distant jet
exactly where the close thing is. Is
that what you're saying?
Behind you somewhere.
Really? So it just happen like this is
just the saying that they're referring
to another
you're very familiar with this theory of
mine. I think this is
Wait. So let me just
playing to the crowd here a little.
Hold on. Hold on. So you you they have
this radar target, right? It's six miles
away and directly behind it
more or less. Yeah. is some other jet
and doing
like with showing a in a it's heat sort
engine in in a way that's never been
seen before in a malfunctioning pod in a
uh what else do we have a malfunctioning
of all the electronic identification
systems like it's just cascading
failures I can't wrap my head I I hope
I'm like getting through to people but
it's just it is it is pretty wild to me
that
yeah it seems unlikely rightly lined up
you would just say what like law of
large numbers and we've never the at flu
does not rotate its steps. If it's
malfunctioning maybe I don't I I I just
find that hard to believe by the way the
patent literally the patent which you
looked up the patent ex there's a
sentence in there that explicitly we can
pull it up explicitly disproves your
theory.
Why does it why is the patent
explicitly?
Well we can we can go I know we have to
wrap up and
No, we have till 4 now. So
Oh wow. Jeez. Okay.
Yeah.
I don't know if I can listen.
You tell me where the patent is. uh if
he it's towards the end of things at the
very end
it says for example that they will avoid
using rule in the fast
so so this is super jargony Mick knows
what I mean this this on its face
disproves your theory
basically saying that it avoids rotation
what were the three words before that
paragraph
uh in some embodiment that is any patent
experts will know that is in every
single patent that language
yeah afterwards for example example
these patents are very broad like in
some way
we have we have to describe to the
audience I know the patent so so this
explicitly so Mick says this is so I I I
it hurts me to like it's so complex like
so he
he says that like so normally the pod
will just do a nice slow rotation like
this to to fly we'll put the video up I
we modeled it out and it's just like
this super chill it doesn't do this
for rotation right because you remember
the in the gimbal video says 1 2 3 4.
Right.
Normally the patent says it would just
do a very simple, very gradual, nothing
aggressive. It doesn't say that.
Absolutely. So it says it says it says
in some embodiment it only uses the two
axis which would do that smooth
rotation.
Correct.
But it doesn't say that the app fluid
that was used that day is that
particular embodiment.
So and also this was uh a patent from I
believe 2006.
Uh, and we're talking about the gimbal
video which was filmed several years
later. And as you know from talking to
Mr. Snow,
uh, these systems change quite a lot
over time,
but wouldn't they get smoother? Not less
correct, not more.
Mechanically, it makes no sense to do
that is what you learn to be smooth. And
if you notice in the gimbal video, it
actually kind of like loses lock weirdly
quite a lot throughout the thing. Even
though it's not moving around very much,
there's little gimbal rotations and it
moves off to the side. You don't see
that. But the rotation, the rotation
wouldn't be more jagged, right? It
wouldn't be more like
there's two things they have to balance.
There's the actual mechanics of the pod
itself and then what the pilot sees. And
they want to make the tracking as
accurate as possible for
introducing steps is the worst part
because it's you're like starting
stopping starting stopping.
Well, not if you have a very agile
mirror system in there that can counter
those
purely spec that's speculation. That's
what we actually have and that
explicitly disproves your
They also have the description of the
mirror systems in there with plus or
minus 3° of of nothing to do with gim
which is about the same deviation from
the one we get with the steps.
I sorry I don't I don't fall but the
point is
we know that we know that the we don't
have to point directly at something. We
can use the mirrors to steer the extra
mirrors.
No, it just doesn't [laughter] work that
way. There's no evidence of that. You
need evidence. There's no evidence of
glare. There's no evidence of a rotating
glare. There's no evidence of any of
this.
Well, we just gone over all the evidence
of it. You can see it on the screen that
we have a optical effect.
You can't use the gimbal video to prove
the gimbal your theory for the gimbal
video. That's impossible. I'm just using
it to show that there's actually some
kind of optical effect.
We can maybe if you want to just quickly
look at some some imagery of what the
camera how it actually records uh jet
engine exhaust. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah. While you're doing that, I would
like to encourage anybody out there who
understands this to weigh in
because we need more people looking into
this. I think that's the me.
No, we need we need more analysis, more
credible eyes, people with rigorous
backgrounds,
experts to actually speak on the record.
Agreed. But and also people who know
because a lot of this stuff is just the
systems and how they work. Like we're
we're debating these, you know, obscure
like RAN patents.
I know. I know. These
Can we go the wrong place?
I'm just something that's 30 miles away.
And by the way, to the extent you're not
compromising American national security,
if if you are not, I think it's your
patriotic duty to come out. And if if
you are, then maybe stay where you are.
I agree. So, um, varying distances, the
engine exhaust
gets bigger and bigger.
No, it doesn't. [laughter] In fact, it
gets smaller. And I have a video I can
show it. So, this is this is from the
same video. And this is a lot further
away at the end of it and it gets
smaller. So, uh, Rathon, I believe it
looks like they have some anti-blooming
effects on there. So, it that is the
opposite of what you are suggesting.
[snorts] And if you sc if you go down
one more,
so this is the glare to wing size.
Glare I sorry don't exhaust glare. Don't
use glare. Glare doesn't exist.
[clears throat] It really doesn't ex I'm
telling you like there's a lot of papers
about blooming. If you go down to that
one where your mouse is right there,
compare that to mix theory. That's mix
theory right there.
Yes. A point light source can will
create anything that's a specific size
on the sensor. So it doesn't really
matter how big if that light was very
very small.
What is the light source though?
Internal.
It's not light. It's uh it's it's the
heat of the engines. This is thermal
camera. So we're looking at these
jet. Essentially it's a very very bright
brilliant light source. and the camera
for some reason has created this kind of
glare, this optical effect, this perhaps
sense of blooming. Probably not though.
I I'm I'm Look, I'm I'm just a bystander
and I'm open to both of you guys being
right. I think
it's kind of um
scary from an American national security
perspective if you're right because
that's such just so bad. If it's like
this heat source, it's fuzzy and it's
just like
every day though.
It doesn't happen every day. It's not
like it's this is going on all the time.
That's an F if if that's an F-18 at a
base that's frequently flying F-18s.
Like that's I mean I don't know. It's
like it's like pretty bad detection.
Arrow arrow thinks it's a glare.
That's not true. Patrick.
No.
Well, I don't know.
Kirk Patrick thought gimbal was filmed
during the daytime.
Yeah, but what they're actually working
on is the assumption that this is some
kind of some kind of Well, not an
optical effect.
I I don't think there's any evidence of
that.
Well, I guess we'll we'll we'll see.
Well, you said that you said that right
before this hearing. You're like, "Oh,
well, you you very excited." Oh, we
can't wait to see what Arrow has to say
about this. The the hearing came fast
and Aguidia, which was which was good.
But, uh,
well, now now they're
spot with Go Fast, as we said, because
air crew is going to um uh contradict
them.
Yeah. Well, then they'll they'll take
that new information into their
analysis.
So, there's there's that is just absurd
to me based on the empirical evidence,
right? That shape if you go
that matches the uh the Chilean case.
Yeah. almost exactly in terms of size.
So first of all that's blooming, right?
Chilean the Chilean case what blooming
is.
Yeah. So it's it's again when like a
sensory gets hit with a pixel gets hit
with too much energy. Yeah.
That it'll spill over to other pixels.
Yeah.
Right. And and that's what we see in the
Chilean case. That is an apples to
orange. That's
explain what glare is.
It's relevant to this conversation. Oh,
but you said like it doesn't exist. But
and sorry in in infrared all the
why not
I'm going off of the people who who
are experts on this.
Why do they talk about a point spread
function if glare doesn't exist in
infrared?
He was talk I'm pretty sure he was
talking about your flare one example.
No.
What point spread function?
Point spread function is uh when how
it's a mathematical model of how light
spreads from a point. So any point on
say [snorts] this is a photo of the
what context are they bringing up the
point spread function
uh in the context of of glare
essentially um Nick it was a little
confusing his paragraph and it was
something I wanted to talk to him more
but he never responded to my emails uh
the second expert
um if you usually the point spread
function is kind of like a a curve that
goes like this a very very sharp curve
like that and that's how light spreads
from a any any pixel on the on the uh
entire scene spreads according to this
this function. So for things that are
pretty dim like most of stuff in this
room, you get a very very sharp pixel
because the stuff that's to the side is
very very low level. But for around a
bright light like this, everything is
kind of boosted up. So you actually
start to get the effects of the the
edges of this this point spread
function. And you can use this to
basically model optical effects. And
they use it to model glare uh in in
various optical systems. And you would
have a point spread function for an
infrared thing. There's simply no way of
not having it cuz you going to get some
scatter from imperfections in the
mirrors uh possibly in the lenses. Uh
and you can also incorporate that into
uh the the sensor blooming as well. This
called I think a uh I think optical
transfer function is the entire thing.
It's point spread plus the the sensor
spread as well.
So, and these are details that we I
think like experts should be able to
weigh in.
Absolutely. So, I'm I'm a little
skeptical, Mick, because you you spent
years you went on CNN with your little
glass, right? That's the glare on the
glass that was disproven what, two
months ago, 3 months ago.
Yeah. You you literally we've got you
you're saying, "Oh, well, if it's not I
got you here briefly." If the glare
effect is indeed all in the sensor, then
you then you shift here to another.
showing that if if part of the camera
rotates or if the camera itself rotates
then it rotates. That was the easiest
way of demonstrating.
So since then I've been doing it by
rotating a camera like you can actually
you know
so basically what you've been saying for
seven years is wrong.
No no it's it's improved.
No no no it's the glare on the glass has
been disproven which you've been on.
Well according to you it's been
disproven but I don't think it has been
disproved.
How do you how do you reconcile this
with the glare on the glass? Well,
according to Yanick, your co-author on
this paper
the expert,
the quote glare that Mick mentions is
likely from boost filters, highpass
filtering, edge shut, that's all
internal. That's not on the glass.
Yeah, but he's assuming that the glass
is clean. Oh, so we're back to the So,
at one point,
Mick thought that uh he he some source
told him or somebody apparently told him
that crew chiefs in the in the military
just wiped the the the glass.
I've got video of that happening. The
guy just manhandling one of those
systems with his hands.
And I'm sure after because there's
there's pretty darn good maintenance on
these on these systems.
As soon as they get up in the air,
they're going for a
spray. So, your your theory at one point
was like uh that that some crew chief
like wiped a greasy sleeve on it and
that's what gave us this.
Yeah, I've heard people say that.
I mean,
I don't think that's what happened cuz
the the glare on the glass thing would
probably give a less uh even shape. I
think it's probably more to do with the
internal optics. I' I've got a camera
that gives a very similar uh shaped
glare to that. So, my little helmet
maybe you can recap. So you have a
malfunctioning
a mechanical malfunction.
It has to be. It has to be.
No, no, we don't know that for sure
because we don't know if there's an
embodiment that doesn't have smooth
steps.
There's zero evidence for that. You have
to you have to provide evidence.
You don't have evidence either way.
Really?
Absolutely. There's tons of footage of
of You know this like
Well, you once like used the Top Gun
Maverick as evidence.
I was joking. Oh my god. You You realize
I was joking, right?
No, cuz you don't you seem very very
serious at the time.
It was on a tweet for crying out loud.
We have there's tons of stuff that is on
tweets.
There's tons of actual video evidence of
how these systems rotate and it's a nice
gradual simple
not really you see it from the outside
rotating
on the edges of I have a minute long
video of very nice smooth.
Let's move on. But both of you guys can
follow up. You can follow up with the
with the smooth rotation if you want to
follow up with any videos that show the
jagged lock. How like you you're saying
there's a distant jet right literally
exactly in the line of sight
roughly.
Uhhuh. Okay. And then uh you have a rot
a malfunctioning uh pod and then you
have uh a an artifact that nobody's ever
seen before and no expert know about and
no aviator who's ever used.
And you're saying that it's like this
new advanced technology possibly aliens.
I'm only saying it is a there's a
spectacular match between the eyewitness
accounts right of that anomalous
trajectory that that direction reversal
with no radius of turn the rotation we
see in the video and the flight path we
can reconstruct
interesting you say you know um new
advanced technology or possibly aliens
uh Dr. Steven Greer is obviously
outspoken person when it comes to the
UFO issue. Uh very polarizing figure on
the topic. He will come out and say
things like, "Oh, the Nimtts stuff, you
know, that's all, you know, Loheed
Martin special access programs and will
say that, you know, they're red teaming
our detection systems or spoofing us or
something,
which people say doesn't happen."
So, do do you guys have opinions on
that? Do you think that that's at all
possible that some of these
Well, I think these guys are training
for war. They're not going to do that to
guys that are training for war in in a
training airspace. It's all right.
That was when I spoke to Ryan Green
leaves aliens. Sorry leaves aliens. My
my basic point here is that if we're
going to entertain extraordinary options
like aliens or even advanced technology
being used by by the Chinese or the
Russians, then we should also entertain
things like maybe there's a series of
coincidences that happen. Yeah. You
really should entertain all entertain
all options, but at some point it just
borders on the line on the ridiculous.
I'm sorry, but aliens borders on the
ridiculous.
Have you The historical record is pretty
remarkable of uh identical performance
characteristics. Wobbly or identical
eyewitness reports and people are very
similar. They got similar brains and
they report things in the same way. You
picked all the ones that wobble.
I picked where are all the videos of
wobbling discs? I I picked the ones that
are suspended by strings known and they
just happen to wobble.
When it comes to uh you know secret
American craft uh again I'm yeah I'm
normally don't find myself kind of steel
manning this position but
it's probably more conspiratorial to say
that we don't have craft that is
classified that exhibits exotic
characteristics than the inverse. So
like 80% plus of locky I think of skunk
works projects currently are classified
and so um yeah are there things red
teaming our systems and to to steel man
your point that you just made is I just
spoke to Ryan Graves we had a great
conversation and he was like yeah you
know maybe that's happening in spots but
like in his case he was stationed at uh
Naval Airspace Oceanana in Virginia and
uh he basically one of his uh uh people
in his squadron fighter pilot
the object almost hit the the pilot and
it was this uh spear inside a cube and
uh and he was like they're not going to
put us in danger if they're kind of red
teaming our system. So I I don't know
you don't Yeah, you don't do that over
international. We have ranges for that.
We have designated airspace for this
kind of stuff.
I think it's possible that the radar
hits were some kind of red teaming thing
cuz it doesn't really put anybody in
danger because there's no actual target.
But in this case, it was a pilot almost
hitting the object. Yeah, that's a
different thing. But in the gimbal
thing, for example,
radar spoofing or [clears throat]
something radar. Yeah, some kind of
radar interference. Perhaps there was a
distant jet and the the radar got messed
up and it made it appear as you someone
actually told me that as a possibility.
How does it account like how did if it's
if something like that, how do you get
five what five or six objects moving in
concert like that?
Well, it's the same. It's just one
object. You're getting five like echoes
of it or something. I don't understand
the the details, but someone did
actually mention that to me as a
possibility. someone who is familiar
with radar obviously doesn't want to
speak on the record because of the
stigmas I'm perpetating but yeah it's um
I don't know
how can we how can we move forward with
this I think we actually do need more
input
let's get the wizo out there
get [laughter] the wizo let's get people
who actually understand the system to
speak on it
and that would be really good [laughter]
come out talk to us I mean I've tried to
contact Rathon and they said oh you
should talk to Navy and of course the
Navy
and they climb up as soon as it's UAP.
They clam up. It's a I see it over and
over and over again.
Arrow will eventually re release
something but yeah I'm skeptical whether
it's going to be a comprehensive
explanation of what's going on.
You were okay.
You should we should move on. Yeah.
Okay. So USS Omaha. This is a very
controversial interesting case. July of
2019 off the coast of San Diego. It was
released by, I believe, George Knap and
Jeremy Corbell.
Correct.
Admiral Galedet, who just testified
before Congress, uh, might have some
more interesting info about this case.
Uh, I think it's Mick's turn off.
Yeah. I'm not actually that familiar
with, but I'll give you my take on it.
Is that, you know, the video we're going
to look at is the sphere descend the
sphere descending into the sea.
Yeah. So, this is like it's taken off a
screen in the command center of a ship.
Uh, we're looking at thermal video
again. So, we're seeing like a heat
source, possibly glare or blooming. Uh,
and it's uh it kind of looks like it was
moving around at first, but that's
actually just the the camera moving. Uh,
the camera that's actually recording the
thing, not the the other camera. Uh,
there's a cut in the video where it it
kind of jumps down to a lower level.
It's actually descending really really
slowly. It's cut to where it's just
above the horizon.
Uh, it's not really moving at all. It's
just kind of slowly slowly descending to
the ocean. And when it gets to
approximately the horizon, it shrinks
down to a point. Then it kind of like
pops up again expands and it shrinks
again and disappears. Uh, and I think
that at the end of it, they say splash
down mark splash splash mark bearing and
range. So they think that it's actually
gone into the water.
Mhm. But if you zoom in on the video, I
think it actually looks more like it's
actually going it's actually a heat
source that is expanded. It's like the
blooming or glaring and then it goes
behind the horizon. And there's some
dispute as to exactly where the horizon
is. If you can move the horizon up or
down one pixel, it's in front of it. If
you move it a pixel all the way, it's
behind it. There was a guy, I think, Dr.
Phil Meta Mets, he did some analysis of
that. M
I published it on Twitter uh and said it
was very ambiguous as to where the
actual horizon was. But it's very
similar to like um you a light going
behind a solid object will actually
shrink if it's a point source as it goes
behind it rather than uh just
disappearing. Uh so we don't know what
it is. It appears to be moving if it I
think it appears to be moving northerly
and the wind is coming from that
direction. So it
pretty strong winds too. It's apparent
wind. Apparent motion is against the
wind. But I think I don't know what it
is, but I think my best guess is that
it's a strong heat source that's
actually moving away and it goes behind
the uh the horizon, but there's various
interpretations and there's
Can I analysis?
Yeah. Well, maybe just paint a broader
picture. This is part of um six five or
six monthsl long incursions over these
naval vessels off the Channel Islands
and off the uh coast of Southern
California. multiple ships. Um, and they
were reporting, in fact, Jeremy and
George released a video of um, basically
two red lights from the Omaha that
night. Uh, and we know that the the ship
was being sorry, and they were just
hovering there. And I think another one
kind of cruises, maybe we can splice
this in, but another one kind of cruises
by it. So, clearly there were objects
around the ship. There's no question,
right? We have there's radar footage
from that same night. uh and the the
ship is getting swarmed. I think at one
point I counted 10 12
up to 14 objects were observed
simultaneously. The objects were
described as self-elilluminated spheres
approximately 6 feet in diameter. So
kind of comports with your kind of orb
you know generation
back to the orb thing that that has been
consistent. Um so uh you know where to
begin? Gez. Um number one it you can see
in the indicator that they did have a
radar contact at one point. It's slave
to the radar. You saw that R. We know
the symbology. So again, this is this is
like the gimbal. Like the system says
it's tracking a radar target.
The system's saying that,
but it it clearly isn't in this one.
It's been done by joysticks and was
manually moving the camera around
and they probably just like with gimbal,
they same thing. They probably had the
radar drop it off in those. So you're
saying the same thing happened again
like they missed the actual radar target
and then they focus. Maybe that was the
actual radar target.
Okay.
Maybe.
And we have the radar. It's all within
like six miles. Five, six miles. All all
those radar contacts.
Well, yeah, but that doesn't mean that's
the only contact like you can.
So, you don't So, they so you think so,
so so so you think so they're they're
surrounded by like 14 OB whatever it is.
I counted what there's a lot right on
that radar footage and you think they
decided to focus on the object that's 60
mi away slowly going over the horizon.
Imagine what the video looks like.
It looks like it's just Come on. You got
to apply a little common sense here.
Well, it looks like a plane flying away
to me. It's very very similar to the
and do you have any empirical evidence
for blooming which is your theory that
is that perfectly spherical any any and
perfectly spherical? Let's go take a
look.
Like compare it to like a one of the
engines of the uh the Chilean,
right? It's all It's all
No, those
circular, right? It's
Yeah, we're kind of getting No, no, no.
There's there's zero evidence for for
your claim.
I' I've looked at a lot of Dave Fouch's
fleid and thanks Dave for all your work.
There's no engine that looks like a
perfectly round. They're generally
perfectly round when they
Yeah.
Okay. Well, if you can show me one, we
can go back. I mean, I we we looked at
it's all jagged. It's flickering like
you know what I'm talking about. You
know that there's frequently
ones do flicker a little bit more but I
think this is a much more distant
object. It zoomed in a lot more
evidence.
You have no evidence that it's that it's
blooming.
It it seems very similar to other thing.
Well the evidence it's blooming is that
it shrinks right when it goes behind the
go slideshow real quick because we can
we can test that very so this is just
the this is the shot. You can if you
look closely you can see the horizon and
the right the horizon line and and the
key here is
the horizon is above
the center point of that sphere. So if
we go down
it's about the same as the
we go down to that one. That's a line
that I drew.
We'll leave it up. You know a UAP is in
the eye of the beholder. This is this is
green
horizon. I see quite a bit of sky
underneath that horizon.
Do you? I don't. But if you go see how
it's a lot lighter than the rest.
If you go to the next one, we can see
the line that you drew and I see a lot
of ocean above your line. [laughter]
So, right, I see an enormous amount of
ocean above and if you go down to the
next one, I zoomed in on one section.
There's I mean there's clearly ocean
above your line.
There's pixel there's dark pixel.
Yeah. So, I I
this is this is the problem with this
thing is you can't and this is what Dr.
Phil uh was saying that you can't
actually determine exactly where it is.
We know what it looks like. It's almost
exactly at the horizon. Maybe pixel
above, pixel below. And it shrinks
in exactly the same way the glare would
shrink.
It's pro. Well, if you if you watch like
SpaceX capsules go down, it does the
same thing. Remember remember we pulled
those up and they look exactly the same.
Yes.
So again, you have no evidence like no
empirical evidence that that a uh an
engine actually has that very very clear
circular um
So you think this is an actual circle of
shrink?
It goes in the water. That's that is one
of the things you see.
Let's talk to the air crew. Sorry, the
air crew. Like let's the the um let's
listen to what they say, right? They say
first first thing that the guy says it
took off. It's booking it.
What does that imply?
Which
play the video. Do you want to play it?
Like the first thing he says it took
off.
And this one it's booking it.
My house
took off. It's booking it.
It's not when they're looking at the
radar. There's multiple radar targets
right there. Yeah, you said
but it's not moving.
He said, okay, what does it implies
that it it left the vicinity and it's
moving very fast,
but it's not doing that. It took off its
booking.
It's booking. It means
it means it's going very fast.
So, correct. So, the implication as Tim
mentioned recently and I think some of
the folks that have that were on the the
bridge of the Omaha at this point on
during this incident said these things
were hovering. We have video of these
things hovering. Jeremy Corbel, those
two red lights hovering and another one
kind of cruising by it.
It took off. It's booking. It implies to
me it was sitting there and then it
started moving.
It's not moving though.
Yes, it is. It's clearly moving.
It doesn't suddenly start moving in that
video. It doesn't change.
So So the the assumption is it was
stationary. It's he's it starts moving
and he records it. It took off. It's
Does that is that a fair interpretation?
It took off.
This is very speculative. I think
really just you you're interpreting what
you want to be happening based on a few
words that somebody said.
We have evidence of these objects
hovering o on the over the deck of the
Omaha.
The drones,
whatever they are, it's something with
red lights,
right? Yeah. But that that video is
terrible video. The the the Corbell
video. It doesn't really show anything.
It could be drones. It could be planes.
Right. There were two red lights with
the other one.
Yeah. people think is a silly video and
and a lot of the eyewitness stuff that
what were those were they just drones
flying around.
I don't know what they were.
So here's where it gets really
interesting. Uh 24 hours later the US
was Paul Hamilton
it's Foy. You can you can find it and
we'll put it up reports the same thing.
One of the objects splashes. You can see
it in the deck log or in the the the
briefing of the event. Uh if you look at
I don't know if this is diagnostic but
if you look at the video footage from
the Omaha two of those contacts are
cruising around. and they just disappear
off the radar.
Went in the water.
It could be in the water. I'm not saying
that is. That's not
We're working under the assumption, I
think, that there were drones in the
area cuz they reported drones. And
who knows? The only evidence we have
shows a spherical there's no evidence
like there's no empirical evidence that
that a um
you're taking out splash just to be the
same as that splash when it was probably
Well, they were getting ready to get
they they asked three ships around them
to get a helicopter out.
Yeah. Because they thought that there
were drones in the area. They thought it
was close. Yeah, there there's a lot of
issues with the whole drones thing. Like
the the army, the military, the navy has
misinterpreted a lot of things as
drones. I just I tweeted earlier today
about how they once uh put out a photo
of a jet and said it was a drone. We
know that the the Snoopy team, the
trained observers on a Navy vehicle, uh
have misidentified stars as drones.
Uh, and what does that have to do with
the spherical looking object?
Well, we were talking about these
eyewitness accounts of things that
happened to go along with these videos.
Maybe they mistook something else. Maybe
they thought that Venus was a spherical
object because it looks like a bright uh
light in the sky like hundreds of yards
away. C can you provide a single piece
of evidence that that blooming looks
like that like that very rounds?
I'll give it a go.
I looked at a lot of infrared imagery
now and I've seen nothing.
It's a natural shape for blooming there.
I think we should move on. Admiral
Galedet says that he has a firsthand
witness who might be coming out soon.
So, let's both
I think you mentioned there's some
video.
Well, that would be that would be great.
Um I love it.
I will say uh just quickly so there was
another ship that reported an object
splashing on the water.
Yep. Um, this is where it gets kind of
very from an analytic perspective
interesting. Um, that ship, the Paul
Hamilton, so this is the day after the
Omaha video. It's a swarm by a group of
of drones, UAP. They depart, you can
actually track this. They depart on a
heading that goes right towards
Guadalupe Island.
And I bring that up because um there's a
series on I think it's National
Geographic unidentified
uh Lou Alzando and I think Sean Cahill
went down to Guadalupe Island because
there have been reports of
spheres going into the water. Yeah. And
you can see and I I spliced the the the
interviews together. They had five or
six fishermen out there, including one
of the world's most renowned shark
experts, a scientist
said they've seen these objects. The
fishermen all say, "Yeah, I've seen
these lighted luminous orbs spheres
going into the water." That's
interesting, right? So, you have you
have one group of UAP, one splashes or
recorded is recorded as going in the
water and then this other group goes
right towards the location where oh, by
the way, witnesses have been recording
reporting spheres going in the water.
There's a military testing area there,
isn't it? Isn't there a drone base down
there where they test military drones?
That's that's Mexican.
No, but north of there there's an
island.
So, we're talking about No, we're
talking about Well, south of those
islands. And Danny Gene just came out as
well. He's a famous uh American lawyer
who represents a lot of you know UFO
whistleblowers and he said that he has
coordinates for a UFO underwater base.
I have nothing to add. I I said we
should all do a boat trip out there and
we we got some Twitter momentum. So
um I think that's interesting, right?
Sure. But it's just a lot of eyewitness
accounts.
But it just happens to align with two
splash events.
A splash just means something fell in
the water.
Correct.
Do you think these guys are genuinely
mistaken? Do you think they have some
sort of incentive? Okay. So, so they
Well, maybe.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. So you
don't think they're like uh soping the
American public or no want money or fame
out of it.
Jay Stratton took this slide of three
stars and presented it to people in
Congress. He thought that it was
triangular drones. You know this this
kind of types of mistake goes all the
way up the chain.
Do you think that's still happening
today at Arrow
and I'm sure they're making mistakes
still.
They couldn't get the date right and
then go fast slide. All right, let's
move on to Nellis Tonipa. Y
So, this is a restricted airspace uh you
know, testing range. Nellis is famous.
There's a lot of UFO lore. You have this
object moving towards the Black
Mountains. Uh why don't we play this
video? It's a little lesser known.
1994.
Mhm. There's two videos actually
within this clips. You mean you mean
there's two clips here within this
video?
Uh I don't actually
there's a different video following this
stabilized.
So I just throw my my thesis on the
table here. I think that's just a
balloon or a bunch of balloons floating
in the wind.
It's the camera moves around a lot. The
there's no actual movement of the object
itself. We do have a range indicator
which tells you how far away it is. And
if you use that, we see that the range
indicator isn't very accurate. It kind
of like zips back and forward.
I just think if you're if you're
operating these machines at a a Nellis
testing range, you have to be pretty
familiar with probably exotic stuff.
Yeah. Look at it. What can you say
though?
It does uh it does basically a 90° turn.
It doesn't. Sure does. [laughter]
A guy made a metabunk in 1996 or so.
Sorry, a sit wreck and he did a good
job. Remember I sent you the video.
I put this in sit and you can see that
the the range data is like, you know,
[__] basically.
Uh and if you just just use the lines of
sight, there's a perfectly reasonable
path wind driven path for a balloon. So,
I'd love to see that because
the layers look like a triangle shape.
Isn't uh this isn't infrared, I think.
No.
Yeah. I mean, you asked me to do it in
set rack, so I did. And then you took my
results and you said that it proved what
what you originally thought.
Yeah. So,
but I don't think it does. I think the
results show that the range data is very
inaccurate. Jumps around
morphing in shape
like a bunch of balloons kind of
rotation.
It does a little bit like an Apollo, you
know, like
the
weirdest video.
It is bizarre. So So
yeah.
Doesn't that look like a bunch of
balloons to you?
And it's right. It kind of pivots.
Yeah, but it looks like the balloons are
like malleable and
it has a weird And it looks like it
rotates. It rotates like steps which is
very if it were balloons and you're
operating these systems at you know rest
restricted airspace like you you have to
have some protocol for balloons like you
have to know whether
yeah but you wouldn't be freaking out
like you you'd know that's those are
just balloons
what's interesting is coming from arrow
should analyze it
it's coming from Area 51 that is very
interesting
yeah well that that's Nell's testing
range
but it's actually like if you if you you
could trace where like it's moving west
at first and then it takes a basically a
right turn and goes north. So, shouldn't
that shouldn't your AAM's razor be, you
know, well, it depends on what you think
what's going on at Area 51, but
shouldn't AAM's razor be it is an
interesting aircraft? Yeah.
But why didn't they scramble jets and go
after it?
It was a threat.
You were all in shock. They you could
hear them like, "What is too surprised
to scramble jets and do anything?" No,
they they didn't do anything. Nothing
happened.
U
I I have no idea. That's all we know.
All we saw. Maybe they maybe they
scramble jets as soon as that
maybe they realized it was some balloons
and didn't scramble jet.
So it's it's zipping along, right? And
it's going due west and then it
basically does a 90° turn
if you take the range data.
No, you can see it visually like you can
actually see it visually.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, do you want to play it
again or
We'll have to revisit this then.
Yeah. No, I mean it's quite clear,
right? It's it's cuz it's like Okay. So,
let me do this. Let me do this for the
for the folks at home. It's going this
way, right? going kind of away from you
and then it does one of these and flies
over the camera.
Yeah, if the range data is correct.
No, no, but you can see it visually. You
don't even need the range.
Well, it's it's moving towards the
camera. You can see
first it's doing this. It's moving per
perpendicular and then it does this.
We shall revisit. Okay.
Okay. Next one. I like it. We're moving.
Okay. Aguadilla.
[laughter]
Auadila. So, this is off the coast of
Chile.
Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico. Okay.
And this is 2013.
It's on the coast of Puerto Rico.
2013 on the coast of Puerto Rico where
there are a lot of sightings.
This is this is over the airport uh at
Daguidia, big tourist destination.
There's a bunch of hotels up the beach
and it shows a an object that appears to
be flying in a circle around the
airport. Uh and this is something that's
been analyzed by a lot of people. The
interesting thing about it is that you
flies in a circle which is kind of
unusual for such a small object to be
doing. Uh and then later it appears to
uh go underwater. It looks like it goes
underwater and it appears to spit into
two spit into two uh parts.
Uh but you a lot of people have analyzed
this and pretty much everyone who's
analyzed it has realized that if you
take the lines of sight which you can
get from from the camera here uh all the
numbers on the screen
uh the lines of sight all intersect over
the airport. Not just at the
intersection a line over the airport.
And that line represents a vector that's
moving more or less at wind speed about
18 miles per hour. and it kind of
decreases a little bit as the balloon or
the object sinks to a lower altitude.
Uh, and a theory that was proposed by
the head of Brazil's UFO investigation
department, Ruben Leamza, uh, is that
it's actually two Chinese lanterns,
wedding lanterns, kind of tied together.
And that's why you see early on in the
video, you see kind of like two shapes
kind of like moving around each other.
Partway through the video, you see the
heat source and then you see kind of the
paper canopy of the of the lanterns uh
be behind it. And then when it gets to
this this section here, this is where we
see it kind of disappear.
Now, this is this is thermal footage.
So, we're seeing the black is the hot of
the flame and there's some blooming or
glare and then when it moves, so that's
hidden by the paper the paper canopy.
uh it becomes you it's almost the same
color as the ocean and the video
compression just can't keep up with it.
So it disappears. You can more or less
see it though a lot of the time
and then it reappears and it kind of
like splits into two which ties in with
the earlier observations that there
appears to be two heat sources uh that
there's actually two two wedding
lanterns and more research was that
there are actually hotels up the beach
upwind from this location which release
these types of uh of wedding lanterns
and then this was all confirmed
basically by Arrow analyzing this and
coming to the same conclusion.
What do you think Merrick? I I that'll
probably cost me some Twitter followers.
Great. I agree. I don't have any
objections.
Okay. So, this is what that's good to
hear. So, you guys agree on something?
No, absolutely. [laughter] There are
certainly there are people who won't
agree.
No, I see you for example.
Let me just be clear. I I agree with the
vast majority of mixed um work, right?
Cuz because and we as we know throughout
history, right? 80 90% of these things
are prosaically explained,
misidentified. We've seen this in New
Jersey, right? People are literally
videotaping or or recording aircraft. So
speaking of which, the world is going
crazy. There are drones in sensitive
airspaces, quote unquote drones. And I'm
just saying quote unquote because nobody
has any good even you have to admit,
Mick, nobody's coming out and saying
anything clear about these things on
either side.
One thing that's very very clear is that
there's a lot of misidentification.
A lot of videos. I'm sure I'm sure.
There really aren't any good videos that
are unambiguously of drones or you know
some kind of beyond drones type things.
Sure. But would you admit that there's a
spike globally of these weird sightings
and sensitive
airspaces? Is this because that there
actually are more of them or is it
because people are reporting more of
them because of this story has kind of
blossomed up from these these original
stories of drones over air base.
I don't I don't have the data, but my my
strong bias would be that there are more
all these false sightings though. All
these small sightings are just people
looking at planes. So there's a huge
spike in those. So why wouldn't it be
like all just this from this huge
spike back slightly, Mick? Ju just a
little bit. Um I you're right. People
misidentify things. Um but I think we're
I think you might be um pushing this
narrative a little too far because it
really the the very obvious plane
videos. There's only like three or four
of them. They're obvious like that are
planes.
There's not that many. Oh, well, there's
a lot more that are uh
well, let's resolvable as planes if we
know the actual location. I got sent one
the other day and tracked down the
actual planes and it just looked like
these little points.
Let's get into the weirdest one. You
know, this one it's gone completely
viral on Twitter. It says Manchester
airport June 2024 sighting
and you have you know an employee an
anonymous pilot and co-pilot you know uh
see this thing and uh I think the quote
is like I you know I' I've worked you
know in in uh you know aviation for a
very long time and you know I know what
a weather balloon looks like and the
report is that this orb comes down hits
the tarmac and then shoots up.
Yeah. But he also said it was uh the
size of the small car
and that's 24 inches tops.
We did very detailed analysis 3D
recreation of this thing from this exact
viewpoints and using the the data there
at the most 24 in.
Okay. And Merrick, what do you think?
I got nothing guys. I I really like it's
it's I don't know.
So you you basically agree with me or
I think it's a balloon and some like
artifacts in the image there.
Uhhuh.
I got nothing.
Okay.
Yeah. Sorry. Then we have this
interesting case of quote unquote UAP
activity near Duke Energy's nuclear
facility in North Carolina. I personally
find this interesting because my AAMS
razor belief generally is that it's you
know prosaically explainable way. The
the thing I hold out you know interest
in is when the sighting occurs around a
nuclear facility. I find it very
fascinating that there is a town uh next
to the Fukushima Prefecture in Japan
called Eno which is dedicated to UFOs
and it's where they had their famous
2011 spill you know nuclear um and then
you know there have been sightings in
Barilloce Argentina which has its own
civilian nuclear grid and then if you
look at Ed Edward J Rupelt the book you
cited uh the vast majority of the
sightings that he takes seriously occur
around sensitive nuclear facilities in
the US and so and then you have Robert
Hastings work and so if I had to you
know again steelman the UFO position it
would be around this nuclear connection
so this I find interesting because you
have UAP activity around this nuclear
power plant should we just watch the
video
and I'll just quickly say Jesse to your
point that the nuclear connection is
extraordinary it is remarkable and and
um I've written about it um sorry go
ahead
no I mean it's amazing and and there
more and more Roswell Well, itself the
site of the 509th atomic bomber
squadron, the first bomber squadron in
the US. Um, you have, you know, the
Trinity test site possibly. There was a
crash there. Unclear. You have DD
Johnson on one side, you have Jacqu
Filet on the other side. They're kind of
arguing.
Well, Lonnie Zamora happened a couple
miles from the
a couple miles from there. It would be
the reason that New Mexico is such a hot
spot for [laughter] arrows on this one
though. I think there's a lot of
reporting bias. uh you get reports on
highly sensitive sites just because
people are much more vigilant. Uh people
who work on these sites are trained to
report things and people who work at
Walmart are not trained to report
things. You got to read the cable and
this is again to John Reed uh
Greenwall's credit like you got to read
the cable like 1975 are youware do you
know anything about those incursions
where where you can see in a in a
literally a um a cable to the Pentagon
is that nuclear specific
absolutely 100% and it it says the the
language is a clear intent so there
there's objects hovering 10 ft above
their uh nuclear weapon storage
facilities right and there are videos of
the plume of various detonations where
you see the UFOs like there's one uh
bluegill triple prime
I think they were at the spot planes or
something else but I can't remember what
they were exactly but that was resolved
as I recall
was it was it we'll look it up
we we should look it up I'd love to
resolve and I mean even Virginia in in
Brazil where you know James Fox went
down investigated for moment of contact
where you have all these you know hless
local citizens who don't seem like
liars.
Is there a nuclear power station there?
Yeah, they that was the the start of
their nuclear program is what I've
heard. And so
I I don't know there it just keeps
popping up with the nuclear thing and it
does it does cut through Lake and Heath
just recently
allegedly according to open source
reporting that um supposed to host US
nuclear weapons. Lake and Heath was one
of the the the site of one of the most
extraordinary historical accounts 1956.
James McDonald wrote um quite a bit
about this and folks at home like just
look up Lake and Heath 1956 McDonald
you'll find CIA documents uh you'll find
um a really lengthy write up on on the
princeton.edu website that is just
absolutely astounding. Um, also, uh,
Royal Air Force Bentwaters
1980,
1980, you have a bunch of witnesses. So,
because it was joint, you know, managed
by the US and the Royal Air Force, you
have a bunch of, you know, John
Burroughs, Jim Penniston, Colonel Halt,
who did the investigation,
the audio and then Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I
was listening to the book on the way
here, UFO News. There's a lot.
Yeah. What do you think about that? Cuz
that's I told you to read that.
certainly see how it would seem
compelling because there's account after
account after account of the something
seemed
and if you meet like I actually get the
sense from you I I I don't think you're
a liar at all. Like I think you're very
No, I mean it. I I I really I get this
uh like clear attention to detail like
um good earnest vibe. And that's the
same vibe I get from Robert Hastings. In
fact, like the way I connected with
Robert Hastings
I think he's lying in the book.
No, I know you're not accusing him
[clears throat] of that. but his he's
dedicated his life to this and the
amount of granular detail. I mean, you
should meet him if you're interested. He
reached out to me. This is how I got in
touch with him. I made my piece with
David Grush and uh I screwed it up and I
overstated the case. I was like, you
know, um, UFOs and nukes, you have, uh,
uh, you know, over a hundred, and I go,
missiles, ICBM security personnel, like
a few other people, and it was it's 170
total witnesses, but it wasn't 100, you
know, radar operators or whatever. And I
just misspoke in the moment, you know,
but I love it. He he he emailed me. He
said, Jesse, it was only like
12 to 15, I don't remember the exact
number, but but radar operators. the
rest were ICBM security uh personnel,
you know, missile technicians, you know,
whatever. And it was and then that's
been literally like all of my
communications with him have been around
that. And he'll he'll correct you
immediately if you're wrong and if
you're overstating again
statistics here, like actual statistical
analysis of, you know, citing near nukes
versus otherwise that are actually
invalid.
Well, yeah, it would be Edward J. Pelt's
original study where he came in
that was done from 1947 1952 and then he
wrote a book about it in 1956.
I mean, the Colorado sightings, right,
the 2019, 2020, those were uh over those
nuclear missile silos partially,
partially. And they mirrored 1965, the
same exact like they're they're
witnesses talking about up and down
movement, bright flashing lights. Where
have we seen that before, right? And
it's undocumented, right? 140 some
witnesses.
And I've met some I met Robert Salis at
Malmstrom in 1967. You know, that was
his sighting uh where, you know, 10 of
these sites were were disarmed according
to him. And I've also met Mario Woods
who was stationed at, you know, South
Dakota Ellsworth Air Force Base in 1978.
He claimed to have boarded a craft and
been abducted and he but this guy
maintained a queue clearance for 20
years after this. And all these guys are
it's the most sensitive clearances.
They're on what's called the PRP
program. They have to report if they're
taking ibuprofen.
So I do find that compelling. speaks to
the whole like issue with uh you know
Marco Rubio we talked in the start like
you know either there's some crazy
people in power or you know what they're
saying is true
and he leans towards true right just to
be clear Rubio is very clearly leaning
towards I trust them
but there is evidence that there are
crazy people but people with very
strange ideas
but who Latsky for example like he is
like a rocket scientist
yeah but I think the more the more you
go into like you know highly competent
you know impressive circles rules of
people, the more you realize a lot of
these people are weird.
But who?
Tim Taylor.
Yeah, Tim Taylor's super weird, but he's
also, you know, working with Elon Musk
around, you know, various launches.
Weird. That's interesting. But that just
speaks to like how much weirdness you
can actually get.
But at what point do you say at what
point do you say weird or
at what point do you say reality is
weird and that uh a proxy for somebody's
uh credibility is actually how high
functioning they are? Well, there's just
a big tolerance for weird within the
Pentagon. How weird do you have? Like,
you have to be pretty darn weird to go
to the ICIG,
Inspector General, and say I was part of
a I was part of a reverse engineering
program. That's that's right.
40 people have done
allegedly, right? Test fin.
Does that make sense? Right. Okay.
There's there could be weird people, but
there's a different level of
I was on this program and I those are
the weird people.
I worked on this NHI craft that that's
that's border that's delusion. Like
there's weird and then there's delusion.
If if they're not
we don't know what they said, but
enough enough for right the Senate intel
might go.
We should move forward. But you should
meet Hastings at one point. Let's let's
watch this Duke video.
I am
Oh my god.
Oh my [__] god. [laughter]
Oh, Irish.
No, that ain't no plane. Yo,
it's always a pleasure.
We stop playing. It's blasting a plane.
We're talking low light landing wise in
a plane.
It just made a perfect triangle. IT MADE
A [__] TRIANGLE. [laughter]
It's three lights in the sky.
UFO.
Oh my god.
tool.
Yeah, you can't get much from that.
Wait, so so one of them So it's a
triangle and then one one seems to kind
of
comes out. Yeah,
the bottom one is just sitting
third. color is not is
coming towards us now zoomed in
the light.
Okay. What do you guys make of this,
Mick? Well, the white light at the top
you can see there has got two lights
which kind of suggests to me that it's
the landing lights of a distant plane
very far away. We see this quite a lot
in uh in these videos. People will see a
plane that's coming directly towards
them. It could be like, you know, 40,
50, 100 miles away. Not that far. Uh and
it looks like this. It just sits there
and it kind of eventually like raises up
and it will eventually go over them. The
other lights I don't know. They were
kind of orange looking. I'm not sure
what they they were. Could be
helicopters. Could be drones.
If they're landing lights, Mick, can we
test this? Right. Cuz [clears throat] if
I What?
Yeah. Yeah, we could.
I'm just saying like cuz we know where
this Do we know what facility this was?
Yeah. Duke's Energy.
Do we have the time and location?
Well, no, no, but but landing lights
implies that there's an airport and a
and a final approach path somewhere
close by. We can test your hypo if you
have the if you have the location.
Yeah. So, so Southport, North Carolina.
So, we should we should look into that.
That's not really accurate enough. You
need a
Okay, fair enough.
Down to the street pretty much.
Uh, and then we have some other people
commenting. I have seven videos of them
from last night. Around 30 minutes of
good video. I'm in Asheville, North
Carolina. The two mean ones were in red
were a red and blue one. The blue one
was amazing to watch. Pulsate, grow 5x
larger, then shrink back to size. I
don't know.
People post videos of things that are
obviously planes. uh and think that
they're UFOs. So, it's not surprising
people will post videos of lights in the
sky and think that they're UFOs.
So, I'm get some
what I find more compelling maybe than
this is uh and I'll just be very quick
um the Langley incursions. If you
there's a there's witness video where
the guy zooms out and you can see
I don't know 10 15 flashing light and
you can tell they're very very far out.
Now, that
is interesting in itself, but you see
that over uh the the Goldwater Training
Range is a video. same thing.
[clears throat] Just just unbelievable
amounts of flashing lights in the sky.
Drones. And oh, by the way, uh Air Force
pilots have been reporting drones up to
36 drones up to 36,000 ft. There's
there's like 30 or 40 reports over the
last couple years that they metallic
objects, eight or nine. It's all
documented. You know, it's it it's all
out there. Can
Can we all agree that we need to figure
out what the hell is going on? More
information would be great. More videos
would be great. More analysis from Arrow
would be great and more experts should
weigh in. I think that's the takeaway.
Please, if you're watching at home,
we have to wrap up in a minute, but do
you guys have any opinion on this New
Jersey thing? Should we should we play
this?
I look I I
from the
only
quickly we have the FBI, we have um FAA,
there's drone restrictions in place. Uh
there's um the governor's involved, all
the elected officials.
It's a flat. You think it's a flap?
Yeah, I think it's a flap. I don't think
there's there's very much there.
Colorado 2019 2020 was a flap.
Oh, very much so.
Can I read a couple emails or do we do
we have to go some emails?
Quick. So, thanks to Doug Johnson. I'll
I'll make this very quick. Um, drone
activity. Here we go. Reports from
Colorado indicate that drones were not
flying as a group or pack, but as a
single unit. Chase County, Nebraska
sheriff deputy reported observing 30 to
sheriff. I mean, hold on. 30 to 50
flying independently of each other with
a larger quote mother ship hovering
hovering for hours.
You're seeing planes flying overhead.
Yeah. This idea of a mother ship and
other crafts coming out of the mother
ship. Chris Melon, former deputy
assistant secretary of defense for
intelligence under both Clinton and
Bush. Yeah.
Uh said that there was this mothership
dynamic going on with the Hampton Air
Force Base incursion as well where you
have these little saucers flying out of
a mother ship. I don't know. Here's a
hypothesis for the green meteorites and
UFOs and nukes that there was a mother
ship outside the atmosphere and the
green meteorites were
UFOs and nukes mentions this as well.
Yes.
Here's a K9 trooper from I'll be very
quick. K9 trooper from Kansas. Uh he had
these flo fly right over his head. He
said one of the drones had a really
bright light on it like a spotlight.
That drone stayed relatively stationary
at that location. He then said there
were anywhere from 10 to 15 drones that
flew all kinds of patterns around that
stationary drone. At one point, one of
those Drew flew directly over his house.
He had night vision with him, so he
tried to look at it. Made no sound even
though the wind was calm.
All right.
Eyewitness accounts. Great video for
what we need.
Merrick, Mick, this was awesome. I
appreciate you guys both.
Thanks for doing this, Mick. Thank you.
This was great. I mean, you guys were I
felt like, you know, mostly pretty civil
and cool with each other. [laughter] And
I think I think both of all of us want
just more experts to look at this, more
data
uh and and and more witnesses again to
the extent you're not compromising
American national security come out and
talk about this stuff.
I enjoy this very much. I enjoy solving
cases and investigating them and if it
turns out that I'm wrong about things,
that would be really interesting.
You'll buy me a beer.
Agreed. And if Gimbals debunked, I'll
buy you a beer.
And I I have a bet. I have a bet that I
guess we never resolved. We were talking
about this before the show. I bet you
$10,000 which is insane because I gave
you one to one odds and it should be
million to one odds that uh 80% we'd get
80% consensus in like academia, military
and civilian sector that uh non-human
intelligence or future humans are
occupying these sort of anomalous crafts
and that people would this would become
the consensus in 10 years which is as
you pointed out kind of hard to verify
ultimately this 80% consensus But you
moved that number from 10,000 to 1,000.
I just like more reasonable bets cuz it
avoids legality.
I think it's an unreasonable bet for me
on it's like a joke for me. I'm giving
you free money, but uh
let's let's just bet a beer then.
Okay, let's do it. Awesome.
Thanks, man. Appreciate it.
Thank you guys. This is great.
All right, cool.
Uh so we're back with Mick and Merrick
and uh we felt compelled to extend our
debate somewhat because so much
bombshell footage has been released uh
since our our long debate. Specifically,
we're talking about this egg video that
has kind of broken the internet over the
last couple of days associated with uh
Ross Kolithart's NewsNation story
involving psionic assets, specifically a
guy named Jake Barber, who was part of a
crash retrieval team involving these
psionic assets, people psychically
calling in uh exotic material of which
uh this egg is is is claimed to be kind
of a part of that and it's being hooked
onto do. Well, I guess you you want to
play it, Nick, and we can we can kind of
play. Yeah. So, like it looks like it's
on the end of a long rope. Looks like a
big egg
kind of swaying around and it hits the
ground
and you see it kind of roll over and you
see the kind of like the wrapping around
it loosen. And then you see these these
wires and this is from the the TV show.
They kind of went in and slowed it down
a little bit. Um, and you can see like,
you know, there's lighting coming from
over here. There's there's a shadow in
this direction.
Uh there's,
you know, a little bit of a roll when it
hits the ground, which shows it has a
little bit of inertia. Um, and it's it's
not a super high quality video, but you
can see that it is kind of like a an
egg-shaped object on the end of of a
rope of some sort. You don't know
whether it's is this a real video? Is it
something that someone's someone's
faked? Uh, it's was I think it was sent
anomous anomalously anominously uh to to
Ross. It wasn't actually taken by the
Jake Barber guy, was it?
It was sent anomalously. No, I'm just
[laughter]
like anomaly.
Yeah. No, it was it was it was sent by a
third party um to News Nation, not not
by Jake.
Um
Yeah. Yeah. And it doesn't show the the
actual event that he was talking about,
which is odd cuz that means that there's
there's multiple versions of these these
eggs being picked up by different
people, which apparently there's all
these different eggs that people are
picking up. Maybe it's a very common
shape, but uh it's kind of a new shape
to me. You like the egg. I guess it's
one of the ones that crops up, but it's
not like a tic tac. It's not like a
flying saucer. It's it's an egg. I did
spend a little bit of time trying to
replicate this and I made a little uh
egg in a little sling. So I've got like
the whole the kaboodleoodle which you
know kind of led me to think it's
probably not a scale model. I don't
think it's actually an egg shaped thing.
I think it's probably something larger.
I think it might actually be from a
helicopter and it might be something
being moved. Uh but yeah it like all
these videos though quality really isn't
there. It's just uh very low resolution
and it's very short. Why do they chop it
off? So, not a lot to go by. Interesting
though. Oh, and the backstory of course
is very interesting. I I I saw Marrick
were talking to to Ross Kart uh and uh
uh Tim Galardet about this and they were
talking all about all kinds of strange
things like the like psychic powers and
stuff like that which was kind of an
interesting um mixture of things. I
think, you know, we got this this, you
know, a lot of this UFO stuff is just
nuts and bolts. This would be nuts and
bolts if it was just like an object
being retrieved, but then we've got the
whole psychic psyionic aspect of it,
which is a bit bit weird.
Yeah.
Merrick, what's your take?
Damn it, it looks like an egg. That's
all [laughter] we got really.
Yeah. Uh what I do find interesting is
and again I try to bring a bit of an
analytic perspective but there's a
gentleman named Eric Taber who went to
Arrow. Uh I don't know if Jesse if
you're familiar with this but you who
did speak to Arrow and he spoke of um an
egg-shaped craft being retrieved and I I
believe this was at Area 51. Um I don't
believe he was a firsthand witness so
take it as you will but again um that
that shape does come up. I I agree with
Mick. It's not your standard saucer.
It's not your orb. It's not your sphere.
The stuff that you you hear a lot. It's
not a it's not a triangle. Um but um you
know there there is it seems like there
is some precedent for a another story um
uh of you know of this nature and and
involving an anomalous craft that is
eggshaped.
It's just a shame we don't have better
video of it because it just remains
somewhat ambiguous.
Yeah, it it definitely felt like, you
know, this like high resolution footage
promise, you know, maybe maybe, you
know, was it's slightly underwhelming.
And then at the same time, in the
instance in which this was a real thing,
this is actually like very good footage
comparable to like what we've had in the
past. So, kind of depends on like the
objective truth, which is, you know,
it's this weird epistemic impass that
we're facing where if it is true, it's
actually like a really good video. And
then if it's not, you know, [laughter]
obviously not.
Yeah, I guess that's all like all these
videos. It's big if big if true. Like
all these claims are big if true but
but better better than fleer and gimbal
and go fast and you know these are these
are different sensor modalities
different Jesse but
well not better from like an analytic
perspective the way you're looking at it
Merrick but better for like a just like
uh again like if we were to get
corroborative sensor data it would like
be better for the the eye but
yeah this isn't this isn't doing
anything there this is just uh inertly
hanging on the end of a rope. Uh, and
you know, we've got UF UAP is supposed
to have all these observables like
sudden acceleration, the defying gravity
being uh, you know, uh, hard to see. I
think what was it? Low observability and
uh, transmedium travel. It's doing none
of these none of these things. Uh, so
it's hard to kind of classify this even
as a UAP. I guess it's it's the context
of the story that's around it that makes
it interesting. And then we got this
Jake Barber uh who, you know, is I
believe he was a mechanic on the
helicopter, not the pilot. I'm not sure
exactly.
I Yeah, I would be I think we might be
learning more about that, Mick.
Okay, that's that's cool. Yeah, but you
know, it's uh he did some kind of crash
retrieval apparently and there's an
interesting story and all all kinds of
other aspects of that story,
but um you know, it's not doing
anything,
right?
is what we need. We need we need videos
of things doing things.
What What do you guys make of you know I
feel like UFO World took a bit of a hard
left turn away from Cartisian space you
know aliens from a distant galaxy and
into kind of uh sigh parasychology
almost more in line with like occult
practices or something. What how do you
guys feel about that? It seems like
there's a lot of that just suddenly
cropped up. It was weird cuz like you
know before it was all nuts and bolts
and then we suddenly had this drone
stuff which is even more nuts and bolts.
Everybody's getting into drones and then
it's kind of like a hard swing now to
psionic powers and like Steven Grier
type stuff like Dr. Steven Greer who
does this C5 stuff and then Ross Kart uh
who who brought this out says that he
went out with these people and they had
these psionic assets who could take
control of craft uh which sounds you
know bizarre and you frankly ridiculous
claim that you could actually cyclically
take over an alien craft. Do you think
the aliens would be able to stop that
type of thing? But, uh, it does seem
like a a weird shift. And someone
mentioned that they thought like, you
know, things were kind of dying down a
bit in the UFO space and so perhaps
people are reaching for more interesting
things. I don't know, but it was weird.
Definitely.
What do you think, Merrick?
I I agree. It's it's a shift. Um, again,
I you know, I I have focused on the nuts
and bolts aspect. I will say just my own
personal progression. I I was and I've
been very open about this. I was deeply
skeptical of UFOs. Uh even I missed the
2017 story. I think I I mentioned this
in in the longer version, but I' I've
gone through a few of my own many
oncological shocks throughout this
journey, right? And um and and you know,
again, I'm skeptical of of everything I
see just just kind of right off the bat.
I I would need to see evidence. I have
seen evidence. Now the gimbal video
knows that we've talked to some experts
and none of them agree with his theory
and and one of the most important ones
explicitly disagrees with this series.
So that that those those are those are
steps on my journey from from this is
all tinfoil hat watchy to wow there's
something to this. Then I then the next
step was I had people telling me guy hey
man there there have been crash
retrievals and I was deeply skeptical of
that having been in the government. was
like there's no possible way that secret
could have been kept for x amount of
years and now we have people under we
had Chuck Schumer alleging that in um in
in congressional legislation, right? So
it's it's remarkable. Uh I've gone
through several ontological shocks and I
might go through another one with a
science. I don't know. Keeping an open
mind
right off the bat, but I am
[clears throat] keeping an open mind.
And I'll just say last, um, I'll add
that Jake and I think the other special
operator, Fred Baker, who's who's truly
a legend in the community, I found in
over the last 24 hours, um, they've said
openly, um, don't trust us, we'll show
you. So, okay.
Now,
yeah,
they got they got a timeline on that.
They know we're doing it, when it's,
um, but I, you know, I think that's
great. That's the right app to have.
Yeah, definitely. Definitely. I would
definitely appreciate seeing more data
and uh you know just you the the stories
aren't cutting it. We need to see actual
evidence.
I agree. I think everybody agrees on
that, right?
Yeah.
Yeah. And Merrick, you had uh something
you wanted to bring up as well.
Yeah.
Real real quick. So I'll I'll just tee
this up. Um and Jeremy Corbel um there's
a video Mick, I think you figured out
when this is posted first, but this is
the the quote unquote Iraq gimbal video.
Um but I'll just tee it up first. Jeremy
got an interview with the the Marine who
actually recorded this. This was a
in 2008. Uh and he's in a what's called
a LAV Lav 25. I think it's a lightly
armored vehicle. Um he's got a thermal
site and he's they're they're out there
in the middle of the desert truly in the
middle of nowhere close like 100 miles
from the Syrian border doing uh
overwatch and reconnaissance. So he's
looking around to see what's around to
make sure nobody the bad guys aren't
sneaking up on on them at night. So,
he's got this thermal site and he sees
an object rising, in his words, rising
up off of the desert floor. And he says
it goes up about 25 m. Then it moves to
his about 30 to 50 m to his left,
comes back to that center point, moves
about 30 m to his right, and then goes
back to that center point and then
slowly starts um climbing. And then he's
then at that point he's like, "This is
bizarre. I'm going to record this." See,
and he starts recording the screen and
then we have this video. I won't bore
people with with the full video, but I
do want to maybe quickly just point out
if I can share my screen.
Um, there are some intriguing
similarities. Is that coming through for
you guys? I see it.
Yeah.
Um, there are some intriguing
similarities to to gimbal. I think we
can agree on that. Um, and if gimbal is
this never before seen anomaly,
um, no expert has ever seen this before.
I mean, Mick, we were on on the call
with the AT Flare expert. He says, "This
is quote bizarre. I've never seen
anything like this." No seen anything
like this.
Um, so when you see these matches,
that's that's interesting to me. Oh, and
by the way, these uh anomalies just
happen to look like the classic saucer.
What are the odds, right? That's what
makes it fun, isn't it? Makes it more
interesting.
Classic saucer. And I'll just quickly
add one more thing. Um, there's an
interesting video and Mick, I know you
did a uh you did a a semide debunk of
this, but I do have a a few bones to
pick per usual. Is that coming through
for you guys?
Yeah, I see it.
Y kind of stepping. Well, you don't play
it yet. Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. So, it does this.
All right.
This stepping thing, right? And then
it's slow down at half speed.
Um, so he moves it he moves the camera
up and you see it jolt down, right? So
that's moving the moving the camera,
right? So this this system is a thermal
it's a thermal system. You can move it
left, right, up, down, and it's a
thermal sight. So the barrel, the gun
barrel, there's video of this online.
The gun barrel is actually pointed to
where he This is how they shoot the
weapon without getting out of the
vehicle, right?
Yeah. It's a gun sight.
Exactly. It's literally a gun site. So
So you can see him moving, but but that
that up and down that kind of that that
jittery that jumpy ascent is very
interesting to me.
Yeah. Yeah. It's just it's an
interesting little thing. I think again
we have the issue of it being very poor
quality. We see here like you see all
the compression blocks and everything
and the pixels. And I think there's a
couple of points I'd like to make. Uh
the first is like you you did that
comparison earlier where you you did two
frames that look very similar with the
gimbal and this Iraqi gimbal.
Uh one one of them is in the gimbal
frame that you show was in black hot
mode and this is in you know white hot.
Uh and the contrast curves are very
different uh for those two modes. It's
not really one isn't the inverse of the
other. So you're comparing a black hot
to a white hot isn't a very good
comparison. And if you were to take the
white hot images which are at the start
of the gimbal video, they're actually
quite different different shape to the
rest. You see a kind of more irregular
shape. It's kind of like uh you're
familiar with it. It's kind of like like
narrower at one end and then wider at
the other. It doesn't really look like
that.
actually to take that.
I saw your comment and and um as you
know, Mick, over the course of the
gimbal video, object grows. It gets
bigger. It does actually become that
shape. So, I I think you're you're
missing the point. Anyway, we could we
could talk.
Well, it's why why is it changing shape
though? Is it magically morphing from
one shape into another? It doesn't
really make any sense.
As the jet gets closer, it becomes more
defined, right?
Yeah. Well, I think you know I obviously
as you know I think that the gimbal
shape is actually uh you know a camera
artifact. I know you don't like the word
glare. You don't like the word a lot of
people agree with me but not the people
you
found experts agree with.
Yeah. But then the experts that you
found you we went over this before the
experts you found they also thought that
it looked like an SR71 which it looks
absolutely nothing like an SR71. So you
know really are there experts really
very good at analyzing this particular
video. They took a quick take and the
guy told you that it was just a quick
take and it wasn't meant to be an
assessment.
Let's get to that rule. What do you What
do you think this video What do you
think we're looking at right here?
I don't know what we're looking at, but
like I think
it again it's something that doesn't
show the observables. It doesn't It's
far away so we can't really see it.
What do you make of this this
motion? Yeah, the motion. Yeah, the
motion. I think you know there's there's
obviously we didn't we don't see the
really dramatic mo movements that he
talked about. you know, he's rising up
from the desert, moving left and right.
Uh, we see it moving slowly up. Now, we
see it kind of looking like it's kind of
moving a little bit like this, up and
down, like kind of relative to to the
background. I think what we're seeing
there is actually the turret uh of the
vehicle or perhaps the vehicle itself
with the engine just moving a tiny
little bit up and down, which would make
the camera move. You know, he talked
about how he was raising the uh I have
to be careful not to do a Nazi salute
here like Elon Musk just did. uh raising
up the um the the camera thing so it was
always pointing in the sky and he got
like embarrassed that he thought other
people might be looking at him and he so
he lowered it down. But I think doing
that is going to make it kind of a
wobble a little bit because we're kind
of zoomed in quite a lot here. So I
think we're just seeing camera movement.
It it doesn't register exactly with the
clouds because the clouds are very low
low frequency in technical terms.
They're the they're the very smooth
curves so they don't move very much
because of the video compression. Now,
this video, I think it it was part of a
dump that somebody did. Uh there's a a a
UFO site on Twitter. I think it's called
Ray Fios or something like Arif
US UFOs. And they uploaded a whole bunch
of stuff to mega.co. Z New Zealand NZ.
Uh and so there might actually be a
better version of this out there which
might actually help resolve some of
these things. So if someone knows of
that better version, then that would be
good.
This is thermal. This is thermal. You
you incorrectly thought this was a night
vision and thought this was what do you
think it is?
Uh well, yeah, I still think the most
likely thing is is essentially the the
landing lights of an aircraft which
which do show up in thermal because if
the the halogen lights
wouldn't show up.
How would they be bouncing up and down
like that if they were LED light? I mean
that
Oh, they're not. They're not. That's the
camera bouncing up and down. So it's
like if very little like jiggles of the
camera like like here uh would actually
make things move around much.
And why would the why would the lights
be irregularly shaped? Why wouldn't they
be like sort of uniformly distributed?
Because it's it's bright. It's looking
directly into the the camera. Uh you
know it's like the usual kind of glare
type thing. So I think it would be like
you know bright lights in the middle on
the landing gear and maybe two lights on
the side. I don't know though. I mean it
could be
like the visible light landing lights.
Why would there be landing lights a 100
miles from the Syrian border um in the
middle of the desert in in Anbar
province or wherever this was?
Well, maybe because it was landing
somewhere is a plane, you know, it's a
military plane. It's not like every
single fires black.
You can't see lights in thermal like you
just cannot see.
Well, you can see heat in thermal though
and some lights are very hot. So, like
you know that is you're telling me that
I don't know. I don't know. Like, but I
don't think I I'm not ready to rule this
out. It's the engine exhaust. If this is
a plane,
the engine exhaust, well, it would be it
would be behind the
If it's coming at you, you'd be
No, it's behind something. When
something comes at you, you don't see
the things that are behind it. I mean,
you can't see the back of my head, can
you?
If it's coming at you like this, right?
You can see the plumes going this way.
No, you really can't. You really can't
because if it's far away like uh I've
taken lots of video of planes that are
say like 50 to 100 miles away and where
they're coming towards you. The angle
between like the plane and you know and
you really isn't that much. They're
essentially one we're looking at like I
just so bizarre to me. Like that's
it is pretty bizarre, isn't it? Yeah.
But I don't know what it is. I mean it
could be like a weird drone or
something. Uh but I don't really think
it just shows any kind of
stumped. I'm done here. [laughter]
Well, it's very
It just happens to look like Gimh.
I mean, look at look at this video. It's
like you you can barely read the the
time code at the top of it. It's a
crappy video. Uh, you know, if we had
the original video, maybe we'll be able
to see a little bit more. Maybe we'll be
able to prove that it was, you know, one
thing or the other. But I really don't
think we can rule things out from this
particular video. I see like the plane
thing isn't like, you know, super
compelling. Uh, but
it's not compelling at all. It's joke.
What I what I think is it don't it
doesn't actually demonstrate any of the
observables. It doesn't demonstrate like
extraordinarily mo extraordinary motion.
It's just something
it just happens to look like the gimbal
in this particular frame. And as I said,
you're taking white hot against blackot.
And if you take all the the the black
the white hot frames from gimbal, they
don't actually match.
Um because the the
[laughter] because
it's not morphed into a different shape
yet.
Gets closer to it. It gets 15% larger as
it gets closer, which is the exact size
at the correct distance. So
why is it changing shape? Getting
getting larger doesn't change shape. You
know, sure you pick some frames here
that look the same.
Flying in a jet, Mick, you're a pilot,
so you know this, right? If you're
flying at something, it gets larger as
you get closer to it. Right.
Familiar with perspective.
Yeah. Exactly.
So that's what happens in gimbal. And it
this just happens. I know
grow at the exact same size, but it
doesn't change shape.
I mean, this egg isn't changing shape
from here to here. It's just a bigger
egg. It's not going to get one end isn't
going to get thicker, which is what
happens in gimbal.
You realize perspective, right? And and
the way they come up from behind, right?
Or they're they're moving. They're
maneuvering to come in behind it, right?
So, it's not like they're coming
directly at it, Mick. You know that.
So, you're saying you're saying the
angle of the object changes
the Yes, absolutely. As
I look forward to you doing a 3D model
of the the gimbal object that will
demonstrate this uh this change in
shape.
It's already in your sak. Anyway, we can
go on for days.
We could we could go on for days. I I
just I just need and I go into this um
in in the in the longer interview, but
again, the bottom line is no experts
agree with Mick and the the literally
the the one of the top infrared
air-to-air infrared experts explicitly
disagreed with theory.
Yeah. I came up with another cockamini
theory which was completely wrong as
well. So what you going to do? Uh I
think we've got some crappy videos here
which are unfortunately the best videos
that we have and I think that in itself
is a huge clue about ufology. The only
videos that we get are crappy videos.
And the reason that we only get crappy
videos is if the videos were better
quality we'd be able to tell what the
thing was and then you know we'd be we'd
know it was a UFO or not. Since none of
the good videos show UFOs, all we're
left with is these crappy videos. It's
the low information zone. That's how
UFOs work. I don't think so, Mick. And
and I I I hope we learn more, but but
the Pentagon has said that they have
quote true anomalies that they're so
stump. And this is Kosla, the new
director of the Pentagon's UFO office
has said, "We have true anomalies that
I, as an engineer and a physicist, I'm
paraphrasing, do not understand. And I
do not know anybody else who
understands. So let's see what those
videos are. That's because they haven't
got the the information. But I Yeah, I'm
looking forward to seeing those true
phenomenal
stump that they need the public. So
that's me. That's you, man. [laughter]
That's everybody. That's that's
everybody that's watching.
They can uh they can use my my software
open source. It's sit wreck. Anyone can
use it. And uh hopefully they will and
maybe it'll help them solve. I'd be
happy to help, you know.
Well, whatever whatever whatever we're
seeing is definitely at the margins of
reality. And so I think we wouldn't be
having this debate if it was like super
clear
the margins of perception which isn't
really the margins of reality.
Well, there you go. Now you're talking
like like us. I mean I think I think
yeah the margins of our you because we
there are doors of perception to quote
William Blake or Aldis Huxley and you
know in the optical range that involves
400 to 700 nanometers and uh if you have
these things traveling uh you know close
to the speed of light they're probably
doing two one of two things. they're
probably uh you know if they're moving
away from you they're stretching light
and so that's like the low the you know
the bottom end of the visible band but
but probably lower than what we can
actually see and then if they're coming
towards you they're they're crunching
light and so that's you know your
microwaves and so it's either you know
it's going to be infrared or microwave
and you need these sensor modalities
normal civilians don't have those sensor
modalities and so it kind of makes sense
that
you would either get blue shifted or
redshifted optical or you would get like
other sensors and it you'd have to
debate it endlessly because it really
look to the normal eye.
UFO [clears throat]
physicists about that. I mean Halutoff
says things like that. Yes. But I think
you should need to ask some I hesitate
to say real physicists but someone who
isn't perhaps so in inshed in this whole
uh UAP thing.
What would they what would they say?
Yeah, go for it. So just just very
quickly and Jesse to to build on that
there is a documented history of the
most important kind of one of the most
important historical documents in in
this whole topic is what's called the
Twining memo from from 1947. General
Nathan Twining who I believe went on to
become the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff. Um he wrote a memo that that
said he listed all the the kind of the
characteristics of UFOs and I think the
one word that was underlying was that
they are evasive as soon as they are
contacted by
that's how they look
by but but you've had you'd had aviators
that have seen metallic discs within a
few hundred feet uh and I I laid this
out right there's there's I think at
least 30 cases where multiple credible
witnesses police officers pilots
engineers have seen these objects 100
feet away and they're all they all just
happen to be look like the gimbal and
the Iraq gimbal.
They're evasive, but not when there's no
camera available. You know, they're
evasive, but they they appear 100 ft
away, where you would be able to get
wonderful 4K video if you had your
camera with you.
They're not really evasive. They're just
evading cameras, which
this is the flaw in your analytic
approach. And yeah, and this is but you
you I I wish you take took some time to
read through the actual and I'm happy to
send you the most most compelling ones.
And you have to read through the
compelling the most compelling reports
that are out there. Multi-witness within
several hundred feet. Um, shake your
head. Go ahead. [clears throat] That's
fine. I'm just telling you that's my
analytic basis. That's what I go off of.
Yeah. Your analytic basis is stories
from 70, 80 years ago. It's it's not
really very useful.
And video.
Yeah. Video. That's it. I would also say
if we're talking about things that
travel the speed of light or do any of
the things that seem to break our
conventional physics, uh, you know, and
then you accept any of these stories
around consciousness, they probably know
how to evade perception on more of a
root level than we're, you know, able to
even understand. So,
and then we're getting away from the
nuts and bolts here. This is this is
kind of like highly speculative.
I wouldn't say it's a getting away from
nuts and bolts. just you know goes
towards the Arthur C. Clark quote that
any sufficiently advanced technology
appears to be magic. And so
can you demonstrate that is happening
though?
Demonstrate what is happening.
Any of what you just said that they're
detecting cameras and avoiding them.
Well, that's it's the all good science
is the interplay between uh
experimentation and theory. And I would
bucket in anomalies with experimentation
where you see these observable things.
You can't just snap them to grid on
present theory of, you know, this can't
exist because of present physical
models. That would have, you know,
stagnated science in all sorts of cases
in the past, whether it's black body
radiation or the orbit of Mercury, which
were both very anomalous. And so, in
this case, you're seeing this anomalous
thing. It's actually somewhat repeatable
with two things, uh, nuclear and
consciousness. And it's kind of on us to
theorize and we could again snap it back
to the grid of like general relativity
and say it's impossible but usually that
loses the snapping back to the grid and
maybe you know the the person you know
uh uh making theories around this thing
is is a heretic of the present but
they're often vindicated in the future
as kind of the the hero of the future
scientifically speaking. So, I'd say if
you're looking at it from like a
meta-accientific, you know, um, Thomas
Cooney model of like the structure of
scientific revolutions, you'd probably
bet on the anomaly. You wouldn't bet on
the present physics model. The present
physics model always goes away.
You can't just bet on every single
anomaly out there and expect them all to
be true. It's not like, you know, they
laugh at you and you're right. It's it's
that most things that are weird aren't
actually real. There are very few of
them that actually turn out to be
interesting things. And those are things
that where we do have repeatable and
measurable data like the you know the
orbit of Mercury and things like that.
We don't have that you know we've got an
accumulation of anecdotes an
accumulation of stories and we got lots
and lots of them. It seems compelling.
It seems compelling because you just you
just gather together all the ones that
seem similar. Look here are all the ones
from nuclear power stations. Here are
all the ones that show like shiny discs.
So yes, of course they're they're
remarkably consistent because you you
gather them together. do some actual
statistical analysis on this and see
what comes out.
Well, that my
Yeah, go for it. Yeah.
Go ahead. Go ahead.
No, you go. You go.
But Battel put out a a very very deep
analysis
uh of of the 1947 and 1952
sightings. And guess what?
Fascinating. Uh 33% of the most credible
sightings were unknown. And those are
ones that had enough data to uh to be
analyzed.
Sure. But we have no idea what they
considered to be enough data and we
don't know any of those cases and and it
was like 80 years ago. It's useless.
And then Edel
and Ed Rupelt also you know did did a
you know study for pre-blue book signed
and grudge and it's the same thing. He
was like 70% of these cases show up
around nuclear. That's the reason Battel
was involved in the first place cuz
they're managing all this you know
nuclear stuff to begin with.
And then you have again we I you know my
editor is going to kill me because I
wanted to keep this kind of targeted but
[laughter]
we have 167 guys with few clearances who
have no reason. They've they haven't
made a dime from this. They're you know
they're sort of they've been castigated
and and and shamed and often demoted.
They have to report it. Right.
And Exactly. They have to report it if
if they have Yeah. they're on the
personal reliability program and so and
that has to be an extremely depressed
number that 167 has to actually be uh
10,000 to 700 or something. You have to
you really have to like multiply that by
a ton due to this,
right? But how how many people have Q
clearance and how many of them are are
in positions where they they have to
report things regardless. And so they
end up reporting a whole bunch more
stuff than your regular, you know, guy
at Walmart would would report. That is a
that is a very high subset of people
with keclarings. And it's not just
people, you know, um seeing these things
in distant places in the sky because of
hypervigilance around nuclear assets.
It's them shutting down the power around
these nuclear sites, disarming the nukes
themselves. And in certain cases, these
guys claim to board crafts and have
things implanted inside them. So,
well, it's that sounds a bit implausible
to me.
the nuclear button if they're all insane
cuz either way
they're not all insane. They're just
they're normal people. They're regular
people. They normal human failings.
But come on. I mean, you you if if if a
guy was was guarding these nuclear
assets and claimed these things and it
wasn't repeatable. Like I just
interviewed a guy named Mario Woods,
1977 Ellsworth Air Force Base, South
Dakota, you know, boarded a craft or
whatever and and you know, woke up nine
miles in and Lake Newell. uh uh uh away
from the base and has marks on his body
and you know this is just a really crazy
experience and he had his queue
clearance and retained it and worked at
Sandia and all sorts of other DOE labs I
think Oakidge for another 20 years. If
you're like a higherup, you know, person
in, you know, uh, the DOE and you see
that and you you have this one guy
claiming this crazy [__] why would you
continue to hire him for the next 20
years, unless that was actually just
this repeatable thing happening to a lot
of people and you were hyper aware of
the phenomena overall and you and you
didn't blame the guy and you realized he
was totally lucid and mentally sound. I
wouldn't let that guy near my nuclear if
he was the one guy. If if he was just
the one guy,
it's not like he had his finger on the
bottom, he could launch things. He was
someone who worked there who had a queue
clearance and people like you David Gush
had like, you know, psychotic episode
and was voluntarily hospitalized and he
kept his clearance because, you know,
people just because they have episodes
doesn't mean you automatically lose your
lose.
He didn't have a psychotic episode at
all and he had too much to drink one
night and his buddy next to him was
blown up in war because
PTSD. very personal arguable
but I'm just saying that you don't lose
your clear your clearance just because
you have you know one thing happened to
you if you get cleared by a doctor later
you go to therapy whatever you can carry
on working obviously like we we don't
know the details of that you know hipper
and everything you know I don't know if
he like you know volunteered exactly
what happened just go back to work the
next day say I saw aliens in the lake
okay go back to work
no there was a there was a very clear
protocol he underwent due to obviously
ly the Air Force having seen this
before. They checked him for certain
things. They checked it
to you.
I I'll just say in the post in the the
post global war on terror era, their
their PTS uh has been a significant
issue and yes, Jesse's correct that
military services have had to deal with
this a lot and there are protocols
indeed Jesse's correct about that um
that had to be followed for Grush to
retain his clearance. Um, but I don't
want to get into personal stuff. Mick,
can I just quickly I I will shut up
after this. Mick, can I pin you down?
The experts have spoken. They say glare
is not a thing. They say what we're
seeing in those engines is what's called
blooming, which is a well-known artifact
in infrared technology. And they said,
and you know exactly what I'm talking
about. The credentials are impeccable.
Uh, blooming would not have resulted in
that rotation.
Yeah. Unless they
theory for the gimbal video.
Yeah, the gimbal I think. Well, there's
two possibilities. Well, there's three
possibilities. One is a real craft
that's rotating. One is that you know
what I suggested is correct and there's
some kind of optical artifact that
happens before the sensor. And the other
one is
yeah like like blur. Uh and the other
one I know I know like you said you shut
up like uh the then the third one is
that the d- rotation happens after the
sensor like it's a digital drotation
which is something that's you know uh in
in the patent. So I don't know which one
of those it is. I do know that it looks
like it's an optical artifact that's
that's rotating because of de- rotation
because of all the various observables
that I list in in my video and and one
of the experts says that he thought I
was right but for the wrong reason.
Another one said that he looked like an
SR71. Well, they both said that
actually. So, you know, I think perhaps
we need to talk to these experts in a
bit more detail, drill down into this.
Uh and and for the record, the one who
said you were right, he actually did not
say that. Let's be clear. and I'll put
out those emails happily after this and
we can we can have that discussion. That
is, you know, that's not true.
Well, he said, "I I think Mick is right,
but for the wrong reason."
Uh, I don't think that's correct. And I
I put that out there. We'll we'll
Sure. Well, I'll check. Yeah. I I could
be wrong, too, but that's how I recall
it.
Please do because everything he
described was an internal thing. It's
not on the glass. Anyway, um, bottom
line is the experts have basically
theory. Arrow is not arrow.
Yeah, the patent doesn't say anything.
Uh,
you know, those experts did not give a
definite answer. They gave an opinion
based on limited data. The one
I read the email to you explicitly ruled
it out or
he explicitly said this was an initial
impression based on limited data.
Yep.
And that it was not intended to be
something. It wasn't even something he
wanted to share. He didn't want his
emails to be shared. Uh, and you know,
he didn't come to actual
conclusion anonymously because I think
it's important to hear those voices
anyway.
He didn't shared it anyway. Like you did
you get permission from him to share
those emails?
I did not. I put it out anonymously. I
anonymized it because I think it's
important for people to see what the
world's leading experts say about this
footage.
I asked him for permission because I
wanted to share it myself and he said
no. So, and the other one didn't reply.
Sorry to hear that. Um, does it bother
you that that Arrow does not endorse
your theory?
No. I don't think they got round to it
yet. Um,
it's the most rec footage of all time.
No, they did. They did. Aguadilla, which
is uh which is one that existed before
that. So,
I I think the fraction of people who who
I know you see Aguadilla come up all the
time. It's a very famous UFO video and
they they I know you agree with them on
that one.
I do actually. I do.
I Yeah. Like I I know you've had like
you've talked to Kirk Patrick and he
told you some ridiculous uh
interpretation off the top of his head
and then other people have said things
said it twice the same.
So you know and you know it's
disappointing that we we're not getting
more information from Arrow but
we haven't got the official word yet
from them. Maybe we can leave it at
let's hope Kuzowski is true to his word
and he can whatever bureaucratic class
issues he has to to overcome to get the
really anomalous stuff that he said he
is stumped by that the true the quote
true anomalies. Maybe we can leave the
leave it here. Let's hope
that would be great. Yeah,
let's get that stuff out there in the
figure out.
Why doesn't someone leak something
that's really good? Why are we getting
these crappy egg videos and these bouncy
objects? Leak the 4K stuff, please.
Well, I think we can all let's end on
that note of uh you know, collegiality
between us. We would all like to see
better better footage. Um
indeed,
no matter what our takes are on the
existing record uh uh and what we
currently have. So, Mick, Merrick,
appreciate you guys. Uh we're going to
put this out pretty pretty soon and uh
just just tag it on to our our finished
video. So, um Sounds good.
Yeah.
Cool.
Thanks again, guys. Appreciate it. All
right.
Thank you. All right. Later